Sec. 64.006. ARBITRATION PROCEDURES. (a) A purchaser may
begin arbitration by filing with the commissioner a sworn complaint
and a filing fee, as provided by department rule. The purchaser
shall send a copy of the complaint to the seller by certified mail.
(b) Not later than the 15th day after the date the seller
receives a copy of the complaint, the seller shall file with the
Statute text rendered on: 8/6/2022

- 410 -

AGRICULTURE CODE

commissioner an answer to the complaint and send a copy of the answer
to the purchaser by certified mail.
(c) The commissioner shall refer the complaint and the answer
to the arbitration board for investigation, findings, and
recommendations.
(d) On referral of the complaint for investigation, the
arbitration board shall make a prompt and full investigation of the
matters complained of and report its findings and recommendations to
the commissioner not later than the 60th day after the date of the
referral, or before a later date determined by the parties.
(e) The report of the arbitration board shall include findings
of fact, conclusions of law, and recommendations as to costs, if any.
If there is a cost, the commissioner shall assess the cost of
arbitration against any party found responsible.
(f) In the course of its investigation, the arbitration board
or any of its members may:
(1) examine the purchaser and the seller on all matters
that the arbitration board considers relevant;
(2) grow to production a representative sample of the seed
through the facilities of the commissioner or a designated university
under the commissioner's supervision; or
(3) hold informal hearings at the time and place the
chairman of the State Seed and Plant Board directs, with reasonable
notice to all parties.
(g) The arbitration board may delegate all or any part of any
investigation to one or more of its members. Any delegated
investigation shall be summarized in writing and considered by the
arbitration board in its report.
(h) The arbitration board shall consider any field inspection
or other data submitted by either party in its report and
recommendation.
(i) The members of the arbitration board serve without
compensation but are entitled to reimbursement for expenses incurred
in the performance of their duties in the amounts provided by the
General Appropriations Act.
(j) After the arbitration board has filed a report of
arbitration, the commissioner shall promptly transmit the report by
certified mail to all parties.
Added by Acts 1989, 71st Leg., ch. 604, Sec. 1, eff. Jan. 1, 1990.
Statute text rendered on: 8/6/2022

- 411 -

AGRICULTURE CODE

Amended by Acts 1993, 73rd Leg., ch. 598, Sec. 4, eff. Sept. 1, 1993;
Acts 1995, 74th Leg., ch. 419, Sec. 2.25, eff. Sept. 1, 1995; Acts
2003, 78th Leg., ch. 543, Sec. 3, eff. Sept. 1, 2003.

