Sec. 12.0029. SUMMER NUTRITION PROGRAMS. (a) In this section:
(1) "Field office" means a field office of a nutrition
program administered by the department.
(2) "Summer nutrition program" means the summer food
service program under 42 U.S.C. Section 1761. The term includes the
seamless summer option under 42 U.S.C. Section 1761(a)(8).
(b) Unless the department grants a school district a waiver
under Subsection (f), a district in which 50 percent or more of the
students are eligible to participate in the national free or reducedprice lunch program under 42 U.S.C. Section 1751 et seq. shall
provide or arrange for the provision of a summer nutrition program
for at least 30 days during the period in which district schools are
recessed for the summer.
(c) Not later than October 31 of each year, the department
shall notify each school district described by Subsection (b) of the
district's responsibility concerning provision of a summer nutrition
program during the next period in which school is recessed for the
summer.
(d) Not later than November 30 of each year, the board of
trustees of a school district that intends to request a waiver under
Subsection (e)(2) must send written notice of the district's
intention to the district's local school health advisory council.
The notice must include an explanation of the district's reason for
requesting a waiver of the requirement.
(e) Each school district that receives a notice under
Subsection (c) shall, not later than January 31 of the year following
the year in which the notice was received:
(1) inform the department in writing that the district
intends to provide or arrange for the provision of a summer nutrition
program during the next period in which district schools are recessed
for the summer; or
(2) request in writing that the department grant the
district a waiver of the requirement to provide or arrange for the
provision of a summer nutrition program.
(f) The department may grant a school district a waiver of the
requirement to provide or arrange for the provision of a summer
nutrition program only if:
(1) the district:
Statute text rendered on: 8/6/2022

- 13 -

AGRICULTURE CODE

(A)

provides documentation, verified by the department,

showing that:
(i) there are fewer than 100 children in the
district currently eligible for the national free or reduced-price
lunch program;
(ii) transportation to enable district students to
participate in the program is an insurmountable obstacle to the
district's ability to provide or arrange for the provision of the
program despite consultation by the district with public transit
providers;
(iii) the district is unable to provide or arrange
for the provision of a program due to renovation or construction of
district facilities and the unavailability of an appropriate
alternate provider or site; or
(iv) the district is unable to provide or arrange
for the provision of a program due to another specified extenuating
circumstance and the unavailability of an appropriate alternate
provider or site; and
(B) has worked with the field offices to identify
another possible provider for the program in the district; or
(2) the cost to the district to provide or arrange for
provision of a program would be cost-prohibitive, as determined by
the department using the criteria and methodology established under
Subsection (g).
(g) The department by rule shall establish criteria and a
methodology for determining whether the cost to a school district to
provide or arrange for provision of a summer nutrition program would
be cost-prohibitive for purposes of granting a waiver under
Subsection (f)(2).
(h) A waiver granted under Subsection (f) is for a one-year
period.
(i) If a school district has requested a waiver under
Subsection (e)(2) and has been unable to provide to the department a
list of possible providers for the summer nutrition program, the
field offices shall continue to attempt to identify an alternate
provider for the district's summer nutrition program.
(j) Not later than December 31 of each even-numbered year, the
department shall provide to the legislature by e-mail a report that,
for each year of the biennium:
(1) states the name of each school district that receives a
Statute text rendered on: 8/6/2022

- 14 -

AGRICULTURE CODE

notice under Subsection (c) and indicates whether the district:
(A) has provided or arranged for the provision of a
summer nutrition program; or
(B) has not provided or arranged for the provision of a
program and did not receive a waiver;
(2) identifies the funds, other than federal funds, used by
school districts and the state in complying with this section; and
(3) identifies the total amount of any profit made or loss
incurred through summer nutrition programs under this section.
(k) The department shall post and maintain on the department's
Internet website the most recent report required by Subsection (j).
Added by Acts 2011, 82nd Leg., R.S., Ch. 1052 (S.B. 89), Sec. 1, eff.
September 1, 2011.

