Sec. 201.103. COOPERATION AND AGREEMENTS WITH OTHER ENTITIES.
(a) A conservation district may cooperate or enter into an agreement
with any other entity, including a state or federal agency or an
owner or occupier of land within the conservation district, in the
carrying on of erosion control and prevention operations in the
conservation district as the directors consider necessary to advance
the purposes of this chapter. Within the limits of appropriations
made available to the conservation district by law, the conservation
district may furnish financial or other aid in accordance with the
cooperative program or agreement.
(b) The directors of two or more conservation districts may
cooperate with one another in the exercise of any power conferred by
this chapter.
(c) The directors of a conservation district may invite the
legislative body of a municipality or county located within or near
Statute text rendered on: 8/6/2022

- 1046 -

AGRICULTURE CODE

the conservation district to designate a representative to advise and
consult with the directors on all questions of program and policy
that may affect the property, water supply, or other interests of the
municipality or county.
(d) A state agency that has jurisdiction over or administers
state-owned land in a conservation district, or a county or other
subdivision of this state that has jurisdiction over or administers
other publicly owned land in a conservation district, shall cooperate
to the fullest extent with the directors of the conservation district
in the effectuation of programs and operations undertaken by the
conservation district under this chapter. The state agency, county,
or subdivision shall provide the directors free access to enter and
perform work on that land, and a land-use regulation adopted under
Subchapter F of this chapter has the force and effect of law over
that land and shall be observed by the entity administering the land.
Acts 1981, 67th Leg., p. 1473, ch. 388, Sec. 1, eff. Sept. 1, 1981.

