Sec. 12.040. TEXAS CERTIFIED RETIREMENT COMMUNITY PROGRAM. (a)
In this section, "program" means the Texas Certified Retirement
Community Program.
(b) The department shall establish and maintain a Texas
Certified Retirement Community Program in which retirees and
potential retirees are encouraged to make their homes in Texas
communities that have met the criteria for certification by the
department as a Texas certified retirement community.
(c) The mission of the program is to:
(1) promote Texas as a retirement destination to retirees
and potential retirees both in and outside Texas;
(2) assist Texas communities in their efforts to market
themselves as desirable retirement locations and to develop
communities that retirees would find attractive for a retirement
lifestyle;
(3) assist in the development of retirement communities and
life-care communities for economic development purposes and as a
means of providing a potential workforce and enriching Texas
Statute text rendered on: 8/6/2022

- 47 -

AGRICULTURE CODE

communities; and
(4) encourage tourism to Texas in reference to an
evaluation of this state as a desirable retirement location and for
the visitation of those who have chosen to retire in this state.
(d) To be eligible to be a Texas certified retirement
community, a community shall:
(1) through a board or panel that serves as the community's
official program sponsor:
(A) complete a retiree desirability assessment, as
developed by the department, to include facts regarding crime
statistics, tax information, recreational opportunities, housing
availability, and other appropriate factors, including criteria
listed in Subsection (e); and
(B) work to gain the support of churches, clubs,
businesses, media, and other entities, as necessary for the success
of the program in the community;
(2) identify emergency medical services and a hospital
within a 75-mile radius of the community; and
(3) submit to the department:
(A) a fee in an amount equal to the greater of:
(i) $5,000; or
(ii) $0.25 multiplied by the population of the
community, as determined by the most recent census;
(B) a marketing plan detailing the mission as applied
to the community, the target market, the competition, an analysis of
the community's strengths, weaknesses, opportunities and dangers, and
the strategies the community will employ to attain the goals of the
program; and
(C) a long-term plan outlining the steps the community
will undertake to maintain its desirability as a destination for
retirees, including an outline of plans to correct any facility and
service deficiencies identified in the retiree desirability
assessment required by Subdivision (1)(A).
(e) The department shall develop and use a scoring system to
determine whether an applicant will qualify as a Texas certified
retirement community. In addition to the requirements of Subsection
(d), the department shall consider as part of the scoring system the
applicant community in relation to the following criteria:
(1) Texas' state and local tax structure;
(2) housing opportunities and cost;
Statute text rendered on: 8/6/2022

- 48 -

AGRICULTURE CODE

(3) climate;
(4) personal safety;
(5) working opportunities;
(6) health care services and other services along the
continuum of care, including home-based and community-based services,
housing for the elderly, assisted living, personal care, and nursing
care facilities;
(7) transportation;
(8) continuing education;
(9) leisure living;
(10) recreation;
(11) the performing arts;
(12) festivals and events;
(13) sports at all levels; and
(14) other services and facilities that are necessary to
enable persons to age in the community and in the least restrictive
environment, as may be identified by the Department of Aging and
Disability Services.
(f) Repealed by Acts 2013, 83rd Leg., R.S., Ch. 1197, Sec. 8,
eff. June 14, 2013.
(g) If the department finds that a community successfully meets
the requirements of a Texas certified retirement community, not later
than the 90th day after the application is submitted and approved,
the department shall provide assistance to the community as
determined by department rule.
(h) A community's certification under this section expires on
the fifth anniversary of the date the initial certification is
issued. To be considered for recertification by the department, an
applicant community must:
(1) complete and submit a new application in accordance
with the requirements of Subsection (d); and
(2) submit data demonstrating the success or failure of the
community's efforts to market and promote itself as a desirable
location for retirees and potential retirees.
(i) The Texas certified retirement community program account is
an account in the general revenue fund. The account is composed of
fees collected under Subsection (d). Money in the account may be
appropriated to the department only for the purposes of this section,
including the payment of administrative and personnel costs of the
department associated with administering the program.
Statute text rendered on: 8/6/2022

- 49 -

AGRICULTURE CODE

(j) The department may contract with a local or regional
nonprofit organization to provide a service described by Subsection
(g) to a community in this state.
(k) The department shall adopt rules to implement this section.
Added by Acts 2005, 79th Leg., Ch. 214 (H.B. 1982), Sec. 1, eff.
September 1, 2005.
Renumbered from Agriculture Code, Section 12.039 by Acts 2007, 80th
Leg., R.S., Ch. 921 (H.B. 3167), Sec. 17.001(1), eff. September 1,
2007.
Amended by:
Acts 2009, 81st Leg., R.S., Ch. 112 (H.B. 1918), Sec. 1, eff.
September 1, 2009.
Acts 2013, 83rd Leg., R.S., Ch. 1197 (S.B. 1214), Sec. 3, eff.
June 14, 2013.
Acts 2013, 83rd Leg., R.S., Ch. 1197 (S.B. 1214), Sec. 8, eff.
June 14, 2013.

