Sec. 71.009. SEIZURE, TREATMENT, AND DESTRUCTION OF PLANTS,
PLANT PRODUCTS, AND OTHER SUBSTANCES. (a) The department shall
seize any plant, plant product, or substance that it determines:
(1) is transported or carried from a quarantined area in
violation of a quarantine order; or
(2) is moved into or within this state and is infested with
an insect pest or infected with a disease dangerous to any
agricultural or horticultural product, whether or not the plant,
product, or substance comes from an area known to be infested.
(b) If a plant, plant product, or substance is seized under
Subsection (a)(1) of this section, the department shall immediately
notify the owner that the plant, product, or substance is a public
menace and that it must be destroyed, treated, or, if feasible,
returned to the point of origin. If a plant, product, or substance
is seized under Subsection (a)(2) of this section, the department
shall immediately notify the owner that the plant, product, or
substance is a public menace and that it must be destroyed or
treated.
(c) If the owner of a plant, plant product, or substance seized
under Subsection (a) of this section is unknown to the department,
the department shall publish notice that, after a date not less than
10 days after the first day of publication, the department will
destroy the plant, product, or substance. The department shall
publish the notice for two consecutive weeks in a newspaper of
general circulation in the county where the plant, product, or
substance is found. The notice must describe the article seized. If
the owner claims the article before the date for destruction set by
the notice, the department shall deliver the article to the owner at
the owner's expense. If the owner does not claim the article within
the allotted time, the department may destroy the article or have it
destroyed.
(d) If the owner of a fruit tree or fruit condemned by the
department under this subchapter fails or refuses to destroy the tree
Statute text rendered on: 8/6/2022

- 420 -

AGRICULTURE CODE

or fruit immediately after being instructed to do so by the
department, the department shall abate the nuisance and immediately
destroy the tree or fruit or otherwise render the tree or fruit not a
nuisance. In enforcing this subsection, the department shall call on
the sheriff of the county in which the tree or fruit is located, and
the sheriff shall cooperate with the department and render all
assistance considered necessary by the person seeking to destroy the
tree or fruit.
(e) The owner of a plant, plant product, or substance treated
or destroyed by the department under this section is liable to the
department for the costs of treatment or destruction, and the
department may sue to collect those costs.
(f) This section does not apply to a citrus plant, citrus plant
product, or other citrus substance.
Acts 1981, 67th Leg., p. 1153, ch. 388, Sec. 1, eff. Sept. 1, 1981.
Amended by Acts 1981, 67th Leg., 1st C.S., p. 242, ch. 22, art. II,
