Sec. 201.128. ENFORCEMENT. (a) The directors are entitled to
go upon any land in the conservation district to determine if landuse regulations adopted under this subchapter are being observed.
(b) If the directors find that provisions of land-use
regulations prescribed by ordinance are not being observed on
particular land and that the nonobservance tends to increase erosion
on that land and is interfering with the prevention or control of
erosion on other land in the conservation district, the directors may
bring suit in a court of competent jurisdiction against the occupier
of the land. If the occupier of the land is not the owner, the owner
shall be joined as a party defendant. The petition to the court may
request that the court:
(1) require the defendant to perform the work, operations,
or avoidances within a reasonable time;
(2) order that if the defendant fails to perform, the
directors may go upon the land and perform the work or other
operations or otherwise bring the condition of the land into
Statute text rendered on: 8/6/2022

- 1052 -

AGRICULTURE CODE

conformity with the land-use regulations; and
(3) order that the directors recover their costs and
expenses, with interest, from the defendant.
(c) The petition to the court must be verified and must:
(1) set forth the adoption of the ordinance prescribing the
land-use regulations;
(2) set forth the failure of the defendant to observe the
regulations and to perform the particular work, operations, or
avoidances required by the regulations; and
(3) state that the nonobservance tends to increase erosion
on that land and is interfering with the prevention or control of
erosion on other land in the conservation district.
(d) On presentation of the petition, the court shall cause
process to be issued against the defendant and shall hear the case.
If it appears to the court that testimony is necessary for the proper
disposition of the matter, the court may take evidence or appoint a
referee to take evidence as the court directs and to report the
evidence to the court with findings of fact and conclusions of law.
The findings and conclusions of a referee constitute part of the
proceedings on which the court may make its determination. The court
may dismiss the petition or may:
(1) require the defendant to perform the work, operations,
or avoidances;
(2) order that, on the failure of the defendant to initiate
performance within a time specified in the order of the court and to
perform to completion with reasonable diligence, the directors may
enter on the land involved and perform the work or operation or
otherwise bring the condition of the land into conformity with the
regulations; and
(3) order that the directors recover their costs and
expenses, with interest.
(e) The court shall retain jurisdiction of the case until after
the work has been completed. If the work is performed by the
directors under the order of the court, the directors, after
completion of the work, may file a petition with the court stating
the costs and expenses sustained by them in the performance of the
work and seeking judgment for those costs and expenses, with
interest. The court may enter judgment for the amount of the costs
and expenses, with interest, and for the costs of suit, including a
reasonable attorney's fee fixed by the court, but the total charge to
Statute text rendered on: 8/6/2022

- 1053 -

AGRICULTURE CODE

a defendant for work done by the directors or anyone under the
directors may not exceed in any one year an amount equal to 10
percent of the assessed valuation of the land for state and county
purposes.
(f) A judgment under Subsection (e) of this section shall be
collected in the same manner provided by Chapter 202 of this code for
the collection of assessments in wind erosion conservation districts.
Acts 1981, 67th Leg., p. 1477, ch. 388, Sec. 1, eff. Sept. 1, 1981.

