Sec. 76.144. COUNTY HERBICIDE REGULATIONS. (a) If the
commissioners court of a county determines that a valuable crop or
vegetation susceptible to being adversely affected by the application
of a regulated herbicide exists in an area of the county and that a
departmental rule adopted or prohibition prescribed under Section
76.141 or 76.142 not currently applicable to the area should apply to
the area, the commissioners court may enter an order in the minutes
of the court under which the department's rule or prohibition under
Section 76.141 or 76.142 becomes effective in the specified area of
the county beginning January 1 of the following year.
(b) If the commissioners court of a county determines that
there is no longer a valuable crop or vegetation susceptible to being
Statute text rendered on: 8/6/2022

- 550 -

AGRICULTURE CODE

adversely affected by the application of a regulated herbicide in the
specified area of the county, the court may rescind its order under
Subsection (a) effective January 1 of the following year.
(c) The department shall adopt rules concerning the use of a
regulated herbicide in a county in which the commissioners court has
entered an order under Subsection (a) of this section.
(d) The department may immediately suspend a rule of the
department regarding the application dates of a regulated herbicide
in an area of a county if:
(1) the commissioners court of the county established the
applicability of the rule by adopting an order as provided by
Subsection (a);
(2) the commissioners court requests that the department
immediately suspend the rule; and
(3) the department determines that an imminent threat to
agricultural interests exists in the county and if that threat is not
immediately addressed by a suspension of the department's rule a
significant economic loss will result.
(e) Before the commissioners court of a county may enter an
order under this section, the commissioners court shall hold a
hearing to determine whether the order should be issued. Before the
10th day before the date on which the hearing is to be held, the
commissioners court shall publish notice of the hearing in at least
one newspaper in the county.
(f) The commissioners court shall transcribe the hearing and
make findings of fact based on the hearing and conclusions of law to
support its order in the manner prescribed for a final order or
decision in a contested case under Chapter 2001, Government Code.
(g) Before the 21st day after the date on which an order under
Subsection (a) is entered, an interested person may appeal the order
to a district court in the county to test the reasonableness of the
basis for the commissioners court order. The provisions of
Subchapter G, Chapter 2001, Government Code, that apply to the
judicial review of a contested case under the substantial evidence
rule apply to the appeal, except that the appeal is brought in a
district court for the county in which the appealed order applies.
An appeal may be taken from the district court as in other civil
cases.
(h) The commissioners court of the county shall notify the
department of a change in the status of a county or a portion of a
Statute text rendered on: 8/6/2022

- 551 -

AGRICULTURE CODE

county under this section.
Added by Acts 1997, 75th Leg., ch. 1369, Sec. 1, eff. Sept. 1, 1997.

SUBCHAPTER H. ENFORCEMENT
