Sec. 59.023. POWERS OF BOARD. The board has the power
necessary to accomplish the purposes and carry out the programs
provided by this chapter, including the power:
(1) to adopt and enforce bylaws, rules, and procedures
necessary to carry out this chapter;
(2) to establish, charge, and collect a fee, charge, or
penalty in connection with a program, service, or activity provided
by the board under this chapter;
(3) to issue bonds, provide for and secure the payment of
the bonds, and provide for the rights of the owners of the bonds, in
the manner and to the extent permitted by this chapter;
(4) to purchase, hold, cancel, or resell or otherwise
dispose of its bonds, subject to any restrictions and any resolution
authorizing the issuance of its bonds;
(5) to own, rent, lease, or otherwise acquire, accept, or
hold any interest in real, personal, or mixed property, by purchase,
exchange, gift, assignment, transfer, foreclosure, mortgage, sale,
lease, or otherwise;
(6) to hold, manage, operate, or improve real, personal, or
mixed property;
(7) to sell, lease, encumber, mortgage, exchange, donate,
convey, or otherwise dispose of any of its property or any interest
in its property, deed of trust, or mortgage lien owned by it, under
its control or custody, or in its possession and to release or
relinquish any right, title, claim, lien, interest, easement, or
demand, including any equity or right of redemption in property
foreclosed by it, by public or private sale, with or without public
bidding;
(8) to lease or rent any improvement, land, or facility
from any person;
(9) to make a secured or unsecured loan to provide
financial assistance as provided by this chapter, including the
refunding of an outstanding obligation, mortgage, or advance used for
those purposes, and to charge and collect interest on those loans for
loan payments and on terms and conditions the board considers
Statute text rendered on: 8/6/2022

- 326 -

AGRICULTURE CODE

advisable that are not in conflict with this chapter;
(10) to purchase or acquire, sell, discount, assign,
negotiate, or otherwise dispose of notes or other evidence of
indebtedness of eligible applicants as the board determines or
portions or portfolios of or participations in those evidences of
indebtedness;
(11) to sell and guarantee securities, whether taxable or
tax exempt under federal law, in primary and secondary markets; and
(12) to provide to a lender a loan guarantee for the
purchase of real property by an eligible applicant under Section
59.024.
Added by Acts 1993, 73rd Leg., ch. 542, Sec. 1, eff. Sept. 1, 1993.
Amended by Acts 1995, 74th Leg., ch. 1014, Sec. 13, eff. Jan. 1,
1996; Acts 2001, 77th Leg., ch. 26, Sec. 12, eff. May 2, 2001.

