Sec. 41.209. PAYMENT OF CLAIM. (a) After a claim is initiated
by a grain producer under Section 41.208, the board may take any
action necessary to:
(1) investigate the grain producer's claim; and
Statute text rendered on: 8/6/2022

- 201 -

AGRICULTURE CODE

(2) determine the amount due to the grain producer within
the limit prescribed by Subsection (b) and subject to Subsection (f).
(b) In determining the amount due to a grain producer under
Subsection (a) for a loss of grain, the board may award the grain
producer 85 percent of:
(1) the value of the grain on the claim initiation date, as
determined by board rule, if the grain has not been sold; or
(2) the contract price of the grain, if the grain has been
sold.
(c) The board shall make a determination under Subsection (a)
within a reasonable period of time as established by the board.
(d) Except as provided by Subsection (e), the board shall, not
later than the 30th day after the date the board makes a
determination under Subsection (a):
(1) pay to the grain producer the amount determined under
Subsection (a); or
(2) notify the grain producer that the grain producer's
claim is denied.
(e) If claims filed with the board that are due to grain
producers under this section exceed the amount of the board's budget
allocated for the payment of claims, the board shall pay each grain
producer on a prorated basis without regard to the order in which
claims are made or approved. The board shall pay the remainder of
the amount owed to each grain producer on a prorated basis from
future revenue as the revenue is collected.
(f) The board may deny a grain producer's claim in whole or in
part:
(1) if the grain producer has failed to pay assessments
under Section 41.206;
(2) if the applicable grain buyer has a history of failure
to collect assessments as required by Section 41.206;
(3) if the documentation submitted by the grain producer in
support of the grain producer's claim is incomplete, false, or
fraudulent;
(4) to prevent the grain producer from recovering from
multiple payments an amount greater than the amount the grain
producer lost due to the financial failure of a grain buyer or to the
grain buyer's refusal, failure, or inability to deliver to the grain
producer grain held by the grain buyer as a bailment, including:
(A) payments made by the board;
Statute text rendered on: 8/6/2022

- 202 -

AGRICULTURE CODE

(B)

payments made from a grain warehouse operator's

bond;
(C) payments ordered by a bankruptcy court; or
(D) a recovery under a state or federal crop insurance
policy or program; or
(5) if documentation submitted by the grain producer
demonstrates that deferred payment on sold grain was beyond normal
and customary practices.
(g) Notwithstanding Subsection (f)(3), if the board determines
that the documentation submitted in support of a grain producer's
claim is incomplete, the board shall give the grain producer an
opportunity to provide complete documentation.
(h) The board may adopt rules specifying the circumstances
under which a claim may be denied in whole or in part under
Subsection (f).
Added by Acts 2011, 82nd Leg., R.S., Ch. 991 (H.B. 1840), Sec. 3, eff.
September 1, 2011.
Amended by:
Acts 2015, 84th Leg., R.S., Ch. 33 (S.B. 1099), Sec. 7, eff. May
19, 2015.

