Sec. 74.106. BOARD ELECTIONS. (a) The initial election for
board members from a proposed eradication zone shall be held
concurrently with an eradication zone referendum held under Section
74.105. Each eradication zone shall be represented on the board and
shall remain represented on the board until eradication operations
are concluded and all debt of the eradication zone is paid.
(b) A board election shall be conducted under the procedures
provided by this section and Section 74.114 of this code.
(c) A cotton grower who is eligible to vote in a referendum or
election under this subchapter is eligible to be a candidate for and
member of the board if the person has at least seven years of
experience as a cotton grower and otherwise meets the qualifications
for the position.
(d) A cotton grower who wants to be a candidate for the board
must meet the qualifications for board membership and file an
application with the commissioner. The application must be:
(1) filed not later than the 30th day before the date set
for the board election;
(2) on a form approved by the commissioner; and
(3) signed by at least 10 cotton growers who are eligible
to vote in the board election.
(e) On receipt of an application and verification that the
application meets the requirements of Subsection (d) of this section,
an applicant's name shall be placed on the ballot for the board
Statute text rendered on: 8/6/2022

- 481 -

AGRICULTURE CODE

election.
(f) An eligible voter may vote for a cotton grower whose name
does not appear on the official ballot by writing that person's name
on the ballot.
(g) A board election must be preceded by at least 45 days
notice published in one or more newspapers published and distributed
in the proposed or established eradication zone. The notice shall be
published not less than once a week for three consecutive weeks. Not
later than the 45th day before the date of the election, direct
written notice of the election shall be given to each county agent in
the eradication zone.
(h) Each board member shall be sworn into office by a
representative of the commissioner by taking the oath of office
required for elected officers of the state.
Added by Acts 1993, 73rd Leg., ch. 8, Sec. 1, eff. June 1, 1993.
Amended by Acts 1997, 75th Leg., ch. 463, Sec. 1.07, 2.02, eff. May
30, 1997.

