Sec. 74.109. BOARD DUTIES. (a) The board shall have an annual
independent audit of the books, records of account, and minutes of
proceedings maintained by the foundation prepared by an independent
certified public accountant or a firm of independent certified public
accountants. The audit shall include information for each zone in
which an eradication program has been conducted under this
subchapter. The audit shall be filed with the board, the
commissioner, and the state auditor and shall be made available to
the public by the foundation or the commissioner. The state auditor
may examine any work papers from the independent audit or may audit
the transactions of the foundation if the state auditor determines
that an audit is necessary.
(b) Not later than the 45th day after the last day of the
fiscal year, the board shall submit to the commissioner a report
itemizing all income and expenditures and describing all activities
of the foundation during the fiscal year.
(c) The foundation shall provide fidelity bonds in amounts
determined by the board for employees or agents who handle funds for
the foundation.
(d) The foundation and the board are state agencies for the
following purposes only:
Statute text rendered on: 8/6/2022

- 484 -

AGRICULTURE CODE

(1) exemption from taxation including exemption from sales
and use taxes, vehicle registration fees, and taxes under Chapter
152, Tax Code; and
(2) indemnification under Chapter 104, Civil Practice and
Remedies Code.
(e) Funds collected by the foundation are not state funds and
are not required to be deposited in the state treasury. The
foundation shall deposit all money collected under this subchapter in
a bank or other depository approved by the commissioner.
(f) The foundation is a governmental unit under Section
101.001, Civil Practice and Remedies Code, and is entitled to
governmental immunity. A tort claim against the foundation must be
made under Chapter 101, Civil Practice and Remedies Code.
(g) The board shall collect data on the type and quantity of
pesticides used in accordance with this subchapter. The data shall
be filed with the commissioner.
(h) All revenue collected under this subchapter shall be used
solely to finance programs approved by the commissioner as consistent
with this subchapter.
(i) The foundation is subject to the requirements of:
(1) the open meetings law, Chapter 551, Government Code;
and
(2) the open records law, Chapter 552, Government Code.
(j) A board member may not vote on any matter in which the
member has a direct pecuniary interest. A board member is subject to
the same restrictions as a local public official under Chapter 171,
Local Government Code.
Added by Acts 1993, 73rd Leg., ch. 8, Sec. 1, eff. June 1, 1993.
Amended by Acts 1995, 74th Leg., ch. 227, Sec. 6, eff. Sept. 1, 1995;
Acts 1997, 75th Leg., ch. 463, Sec. 1.10, 2.03, eff. May 30, 1997.

