Sec. 58.041. ISSUANCE OF DEBT BY TEXAS PUBLIC FINANCE
AUTHORITY. (a) In this section, "debt instrument" means a note,
debenture, bond, or other evidence of indebtedness.
(b) The Texas Public Finance Authority has the exclusive
authority to act on behalf of the authority in issuing debt
instruments authorized to be issued by the authority. A reference in
law to a debt instrument issued by the authority, in the context of a
debt instrument issued on or after September 1, 2009, means a debt
instrument issued by the Texas Public Finance Authority on behalf of
the authority.
(c) Notwithstanding Section 58.034(e), the authority shall pay
all costs incurred by the Texas Public Finance Authority for issuing
debt instruments on behalf of the authority and associated fees and
expenses.
(d) When the board authorizes the issuance of debt instruments
to fund a loan, the authority shall notify the Texas Public Finance
Authority of the amount of the loan and the recipient of the loan and
request the Texas Public Finance Authority to issue debt instruments
in an amount necessary to fund the loan. The authority and the Texas
Public Finance Authority shall determine the amount and time of a
debt instrument issue to best provide funds for one or multiple
loans.
(e) The Texas Public Finance Authority, at the request of the
authority, may issue debt instruments to provide money to the Texas
agricultural fund.
(f) The Texas Public Finance Authority may sell debt
instruments in any manner it determines to be in the best interest of
the authority, except that it may not sell a debt instrument that has
not been approved by the attorney general and registered with the
comptroller.
(g) The board, in consultation with the Texas Public Finance
Authority, shall adopt rules containing criteria for evaluating the
creditworthiness of loan applicants and the financial feasibility of
projects to be funded with debt instruments issued by the Texas
Public Finance Authority on behalf of the authority.
(h) The Texas Public Finance Authority may enter into a credit
agreement for a debt instrument issued by the Texas Public Finance
Statute text rendered on: 8/6/2022

- 310 -

AGRICULTURE CODE

Authority on behalf of the authority for a period and on conditions
approved by the Texas Public Finance Authority.
(i) This subsection applies only in relation to general
obligation debt instruments. To the extent other sources of revenue
available for payment of the authority's debts are insufficient and
in accordance with the Texas Constitution, general revenue is to be
appropriated to the Texas Public Finance Authority in an amount
determined by the Texas Public Finance Authority to be necessary to
pay the principal, premium if any, and interest on general obligation
debt instruments issued by the Texas Public Finance Authority on
behalf of the authority, and that amount shall be specified in the
biennial appropriations acts.
Added by Acts 2009, 81st Leg., R.S., Ch. 506 (S.B. 1016), Sec. 1.09,
eff. September 1, 2009.

SUBCHAPTER E. AGRICULTURAL LOAN GUARANTEE PROGRAM
