Sec. 80.003. DEFINITIONS. In this chapter:
(1) "Board" means the board of directors of the Texas
Citrus Pest and Disease Management Corporation, Inc.
(2) "Asian citrus psyllid" means Diaphorina citri Kuwayama.
(3) "Commissioner" means the commissioner of agriculture.
(4) "Citrus" means:
(A) a citrus plant;
(B) a part of a citrus plant, including trees, limbs,
flowers, roots, and leaves; or
(C) citrus products.
(5) "Citrus greening" means the disease caused by the Asian
citrus psyllid.
Statute text rendered on: 8/6/2022

- 590 -

AGRICULTURE CODE

(6) "Citrus producer" means a person who grows citrus and
receives or intends to receive income from the sale of citrus. The
term includes an individual who as owner, landlord, tenant, or
sharecropper is entitled to share in the citrus grown and available
for marketing from a farm or to share in the proceeds from the sale
of the citrus from the farm. The term includes a person who owns land
that is primarily used to grow citrus and that is appraised based on
agricultural use under Chapter 23, Tax Code, regardless of whether
the person receives income from the sale of citrus, and there is an
irrebuttable presumption that the person intends to receive income
from the sale of citrus.
(7) "Suppression" means control of the numbers and
migration of a pest to the extent that the commissioner does not
consider further management of the pest necessary to prevent economic
loss to citrus producers.
(8) "Pest management zone" means a geographic area
designated by the commissioner in accordance with Section 80.005 in
which citrus producers by referendum approve their participation in a
citrus pest control program.
(9) "Corporation" means the Texas Citrus Pest and Disease
Management Corporation, Inc., a Texas nonprofit corporation.
(10) "Host" means a plant or plant product in which a pest
is capable of completing any portion of its life cycle.
(11) "Infested" means the presence of a pest in any life
stage or the existence of generally accepted evidence from which it
may be concluded with reasonable certainty that a pest is present.
(12) "Integrated pest management" means the coordinated use
of pest and environmental information with available pest control
methods, including pesticides, natural predator controls, cultural
farming practices, and climatic conditions, to prevent unacceptable
levels of pest damage by the most economical means and with the least
possible hazard to people, property, and the environment.
(13) "Regulated article" means an article carrying or
capable of carrying a pest, including citrus plants, nursery plants,
citrus rootstock, or other hosts.
(14) "Disease" means an impairment of the normal state of
citrus, caused by a virus or organism, that interrupts or modifies
the performance of vital functions in citrus. The term includes
citrus greening.
(15) "Pest" means a virus or organism that causes disease
Statute text rendered on: 8/6/2022

- 591 -

AGRICULTURE CODE

or other damage to citrus and that is designated by commissioner rule
for suppression under this chapter. The term includes the Asian
citrus psyllid.
Added by Acts 2009, 81st Leg., R.S., Ch. 506 (S.B. 1016), Sec. 10.01,
eff. September 1, 2009.
Amended by:
Acts 2013, 83rd Leg., R.S., Ch. 924 (H.B. 1494), Sec. 5.01, eff.
September 1, 2013.
Acts 2015, 84th Leg., R.S., Ch. 29 (S.B. 1749), Sec. 3, eff.
September 1, 2015.

