Sec. 80.016.

CONDUCT OF BOARD ELECTIONS AND REFERENDA;

Statute text rendered on: 8/6/2022

- 602 -

AGRICULTURE CODE

BALLOTING. (a) The commissioner shall conduct a referendum or board
election authorized under this chapter.
(b) The corporation shall bear all expenses incurred in
conducting a referendum or board election.
(c) The commissioner shall adopt rules for voting in board
elections and referenda to establish pest management zones. Rules
adopted under this subsection must include provisions for
determining:
(1) who is a citrus producer eligible to vote in an
election or referendum;
(2) whether a board member is elected by a plurality or a
majority of the votes cast; and
(3) the area from which each board member is elected.
(d) A citrus producer in a proposed or established pest
management zone is entitled to:
(1) vote in a referendum concerning the pest management
zone; and
(2) elect board members to represent the pest management
zone.
(e) An eligible citrus producer may vote only once in a
referendum or board election.
(f) Ballots in a referendum or board election shall be mailed
directly to a central location, as determined by the commissioner. A
citrus producer eligible to vote in a referendum or board election
who has not received a ballot from the commissioner, corporation, or
another source shall be offered the option of requesting a ballot by
mail or obtaining a ballot at the office of the Texas AgriLife
Extension Service or a government office distributing ballots in a
county in the proposed or established zone in which the referendum or
board election is conducted.
(g) A referendum is approved if:
(1) at least two-thirds of those voting vote in favor of
the referendum; or
(2) those voting in favor of the referendum cultivate more
than 50 percent, as determined by the commissioner, of the citrus
acreage in the relevant pest management zone.
(h) If a referendum under this chapter is not approved, the
commissioner may conduct another referendum. A referendum under this
subsection may not be held before the first anniversary of the date
on which the previous referendum on the same issue was held.
Statute text rendered on: 8/6/2022

- 603 -

AGRICULTURE CODE

(i) A public hearing regarding the proposed suppression
program, including information regarding regulations to be
promulgated by the commissioner, may be held by the commissioner in
each of several locations in each pest management zone.
(j) Individual voter information, including an individual's
vote in a referendum or board election conducted under this section,
is confidential and is not subject to disclosure under Chapter 552,
Government Code.
Added by Acts 2009, 81st Leg., R.S., Ch. 506 (S.B. 1016), Sec. 10.01,
eff. September 1, 2009.
Amended by:
Acts 2013, 83rd Leg., R.S., Ch. 924 (H.B. 1494), Sec. 5.03, eff.
September 1, 2013.
Acts 2015, 84th Leg., R.S., Ch. 29 (S.B. 1749), Sec. 8, eff.
September 1, 2015.

