Sec. 134.031. MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING. (a) The Texas
Commission on Environmental Quality and the Parks and Wildlife
Department shall enter into a memorandum of understanding for the
regulation of matters related to aquaculture.
(b) The Texas Commission on Environmental Quality, after
receiving an application for a wastewater discharge authorization
from an aquaculture facility, shall provide a copy of the application
to the Parks and Wildlife Department.
(c) The Texas Commission on Environmental Quality and the Parks
and Wildlife Department shall ensure that the proposed discharge will
not adversely affect a bay, an estuary, or other waters in the state.
(d) The Parks and Wildlife Department, in consultation with the
Texas Commission on Environmental Quality, may establish general
guidelines that identify sensitive aquatic habitat within the coastal
zone. The general guidelines must include factors such as the
presence of sea grass beds, depth of receiving waters, and amount of
tidal exchange.
(e) If the Parks and Wildlife Department establishes the
guidelines described in Subsection (d), the Parks and Wildlife
Department must provide the guidelines to the Texas Commission on
Environmental Quality.
(f) If the Parks and Wildlife Department has established the
guidelines described in Subsection (d), the Texas Commission on
Environmental Quality must consider the guidelines when reviewing
wastewater discharge authorization applications for new aquaculture
facilities located within the coastal zone, or expansion of existing
facilities located within the coastal zone if the expansion will
increase the amount of discharge, or change the nature of the
discharge, above levels allowed by the wastewater discharge permit.
(g) In developing the guidelines under Subsection (d)
applicable to aquaculture facilities engaged in the production of
Statute text rendered on: 8/6/2022

- 784 -

AGRICULTURE CODE

shrimp in the coastal zone, the Parks and Wildlife Department, in
consultation with the Texas Commission on Environmental Quality,
shall consider the best management practices that the facilities
developed under the direction of the Texas Commission on
Environmental Quality.
(h) In the development of siting guidelines for aquaculture
facilities engaged in the production of shrimp in the coastal zone,
the best management practices developed by the facilities shall be
considered.
Added by Acts 1999, 76th Leg., ch. 1239, Sec. 6, eff. Sept. 1, 1999.
Amended by:
Acts 2021, 87th Leg., R.S., Ch. 848 (S.B. 703), Sec. 35, eff.
September 1, 2021.

SUBTITLE B. LIVESTOCK
CHAPTER 141. COMMERCIAL FEED
SUBCHAPTER A. GENERAL PROVISIONS
