Sec. 12.042. HOME-DELIVERED MEAL GRANT PROGRAM. (a) The
department shall establish a home-delivered meal grant program to
benefit homebound elderly persons and persons with disabilities in
this state. The program must be designed to help defray the costs of
providing home-delivered meals that are not fully funded by the
Health and Human Services Commission or an area agency on aging.
(b) From funds appropriated for that purpose, the department
shall make grants to qualifying organizations that provide homedelivered meals to homebound elderly persons and persons with
disabilities. The department may use not more than five percent of
those appropriated funds for the administration of the grant program.
(c) An organization applying to the department for a grant
under this section must:
(1) be a governmental agency or a nonprofit private
organization that is exempt from taxation under Section 501(a),
Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as an organization described by
Section 501(c)(3) of that code, that is a direct provider of homedelivered meals to elderly persons or persons with disabilities in
this state;
(2) if it is a nonprofit private organization, have a
volunteer board of directors;
(3) practice nondiscrimination;
(4) have an accounting system or fiscal agent approved by
the county in which it provides meals;
(5) have a system to prevent the duplication of services to
the organization's clients; and
(6) agree to use funds received under this section only to
supplement and extend existing services related directly to homedelivered meal services.
(d) Before an organization may receive a grant from the
department, the county in which the organization provides meals must
make a grant to the organization. If the county makes a grant to the
organization in an amount that is less than 25 cents for each person
at least 60 years of age who resides in the county, according to the
most recent federal decennial census, the maximum amount the
department may provide to organizations in the county under
Statute text rendered on: 8/6/2022

- 51 -

AGRICULTURE CODE

Subsection (h) is reduced to an amount in proportion to the amount by
which the county grant is less than 25 cents for each elderly
resident.
(e) The department shall require an organization seeking a
grant to file an application in a form approved by the department.
The application must be signed or electronically acknowledged by the
organization's executive director, be postmarked or electronically
submitted not later than November 1, and must include:
(1) the organization's name and address;
(2) the names and titles of the organization's executive
director and board chair, if applicable;
(3) the name of the county in relation to which the
organization is applying;
(4) the number of residents at least 60 years of age who
reside in that county, according to the most recent federal decennial
census;
(5) the amount of the grant awarded by that county as
required by Subsection (d);
(6) the number of meals the organization delivered to
elderly persons or persons with disabilities in that county during
the preceding state fiscal year that were not fully funded by the
Health and Human Services Commission or an area agency on aging;
(7) appropriate documentation demonstrating that the
organization:
(A) is a qualifying governmental agency or nonprofit
private organization;
(B) has been awarded a grant by the county in relation
to which the organization is applying, as required by Subsection (d);
and
(C) has delivered the number of meals reported under
Subdivision (6);
(8) the organization's most recent financial statement or
audited financial report; and
(9) a list of the organization's board and officers.
(f) An organization that applies for a grant for meals
delivered in more than one county must submit a separate application
in relation to each county.
(g) The department annually shall determine:
(1) the total amount of money available for grants under
this section;
Statute text rendered on: 8/6/2022

- 52 -

AGRICULTURE CODE

(2) the number of residents at least 60 years of age in
this state, according to the most recent federal decennial census;
and
(3) the number of residents at least 60 years of age in
each county in this state, according to the most recent federal
decennial census.
(h) Except as provided by Subsections (d), (i), and (j), grants
from the department to qualifying organizations in a county in a
state fiscal year may not exceed an amount determined by the formula:
CR x (TD/SR)
where:
"CR" is the number of residents at least 60 years of age in the
county;
"TD" is the total amount of money appropriated to the department
for that state fiscal year to make grants, less the department's
administrative expenses; and
"SR" is the number of residents at least 60 years of age in this
state.
(i) Not later than February 1 of each year, the department
shall make a grant to each qualifying organization that has submitted
an approved application under this section. Subject to Subsections
(d) and (h), the department shall make grants in an amount equal to
one dollar for each meal that the organization delivered to homebound
elderly persons or persons with disabilities in the county in the
preceding state fiscal year that was not fully funded by the Health
and Human Services Commission or an area agency on aging. If more
than one qualifying organization delivers meals in a county, the
department shall reduce the grants proportionally to each qualifying
organization in that county so that the total amount of the grants to
the organizations does not exceed the amount described by Subsection
(h).
(j) If the total amount of the grants made by the department
under Subsection (i) is less than the amount appropriated to fund the
program under this section in a state fiscal year, the department
shall use the unspent funds to proportionally increase the grants to
each qualifying organization.
(k) The home-delivered meal fund is an account in the general
revenue fund. Money in the account may be appropriated only to the
department to award grants under this section and to pay for the
operation of the program under this section.
Statute text rendered on: 8/6/2022

- 53 -

AGRICULTURE CODE

(l) These funds shall not be considered by the Texas Department
of Aging and Disability Services or the Area Agencies on Aging in
setting unit rates.
Added by Acts 2007, 80th Leg., R.S., Ch. 92 (H.B. 407), Sec. 1, eff.
May 15, 2007.
Amended by:
Acts 2021, 87th Leg., R.S., Ch. 848 (S.B. 703), Sec. 7, eff.
September 1, 2021.

