Sec. 49.002. ADMINISTRATION; GUIDELINES AND PROCEDURES. (a)
The department shall develop, maintain, and administer the agri-tech
program to provide support for eligible institutions to conduct
research projects on methods to address agricultural crises in this
Statute text rendered on: 8/6/2022

- 233 -

AGRICULTURE CODE

state.
(b) In awarding funds to support projects under this chapter,
the department shall:
(1) give priority to applied research projects that the
commissioner determines to be necessary to address an immediate
agricultural crisis; and
(2) consider the recommendations of the Commodity Crisis
Council for specific projects.
(c) The department shall award funds to support projects as
needed to address agricultural crises in this state.
(d) The department shall develop and maintain guidelines and
procedures to provide awards under this chapter for specific projects
at eligible institutions on a competitive, peer-review basis.
(e) The department shall determine whether an institution of
higher education qualifies as an eligible institution for the
purposes of this chapter. To be designated as an eligible
institution, an institution of higher education must demonstrate an
exceptional capability to attract federal, state, and private funding
for scientific and technical research and have an exceptionally
strong research staff and the necessary equipment and facilities.
(f) In considering projects for selection, the commissioner
shall give special consideration to projects that:
(1) leverage funds from other sources; and
(2) propose innovative, collaborative efforts:
(A) across academic disciplines;
(B) involving two or more eligible institutions; or
(C) involving eligible institutions, private industry,
and the federal government.
(g) The commissioner may adopt rules necessary to accomplish
the purposes of this chapter.
Added by Acts 1999, 76th Leg., ch. 1459, Sec. 7, eff. June 19, 1999.
Renumbered from Sec. 46.002 by Acts 2001, 77th Leg., ch. 1420, Sec.
21.001(2), eff. Sept. 1, 2001.

