Sec. 63.051. LABELING OF COMMERCIAL FERTILIZER. (a) Except as
provided by Subsection (d) of this section, each container of
commercial fertilizer distributed in this state, other than customerformula fertilizer, must have a label with the following information:
(1) the name and principal address of the person
responsible for manufacture and distribution;
Statute text rendered on: 8/6/2022

- 389 -

AGRICULTURE CODE

(2) the brand, grade, and name under which the fertilizer
is to be distributed;
(3) the net weight of the fertilizer in the container;
(4) the guaranteed analysis of the plant nutrients in the
fertilizer, listing the minimum percentages of primary, secondary,
and micro plant nutrients, and other additives, in accordance with
rules of the service; and
(5) other information that the service may by rule
prescribe.
(b) The guaranteed analysis of any unacidulated mineral
phosphatic materials and basic slag shall guarantee both the total
and available phosphoric acid and the degree of fineness. The
guaranteed analysis of bone, tankage, and other organic phosphate
materials shall guarantee the total phosphoric acid. All materials
included in the guaranteed analysis are subject to inspection and
determination by laboratory procedures in accordance with rules of
the service.
(c) The manufacturer or other person distributing packaged
commercial fertilizer shall affix the label required by this section
to the container of fertilizer or cause it to be printed on the side
of the container in the manner prescribed by the service. The label
information must be grouped together and plainly printed in English
in the size or of type prescribed by the service.
(d) The manufacturer or other person distributing commercial
fertilizer in bulk or in a container that holds an amount exceeding
110 pounds dry weight or 55 gallons liquid shall at the time of
delivery furnish the purchaser with a written or printed statement
showing the information required by this section.
Acts 1981, 67th Leg., p. 1144, ch. 388, Sec. 1, eff. Sept. 1, 1981.
Amended by Acts 1983, 68th Leg., p. 1846, ch. 349, art. 1, Sec. 3,
eff. Sept. 1, 1983.

