Sec. 102.159.
Statute text rendered on: 8/6/2022

ASSESSMENT.

(a)
- 680 -

If an administrative committee

AGRICULTURE CODE

is authorized to collect an assessment, for each marketing season or
year in which the marketing agreement or license is effective the
committee shall collect from each handler an assessment representing
the handler's pro rata share of the estimated expenses incurred by
the department in conducting hearings and incurred by the
administrative committee in administering the agreement or license
during the marketing season or year. The department shall estimate
those expenses after each administrative committee submits to the
department a proposed budget.
(b) An assessment levied under this section is a personal debt
of each person assessed and is immediately due and payable to the
administrative committee charged with collection. With the approval
of the department, an administrative committee may sue in its own
name in a court of competent jurisdiction for the collection of an
assessment.
(c) In accordance with the rules of the department, each
administrative committee charged with the collection of assessments
shall collect, report, and pay monthly to the department the amount
of the assessments that the department determines will be necessary
to defray the department's cost of administering the marketing
agreement or license during the subsequent month.
(d) The department shall submit to each administrative
committee charged with collecting assessments quarterly statements
reporting the receipts and expenditures during the quarter in
connection with the administration of the appropriate marketing
agreement or license.
(e) An administrative committee may expend assessments for the
purposes set forth in the marketing agreement or license under which
the assessment is collected. The committee shall keep a full and
complete record of those expenditures and the department is entitled
to access to that record at any time.
(f) An administrative committee shall retain custody of
assessments that are not paid to the department or expended under
Subsection (e) of this section. At the close of the marketing season
or year for which an assessment is collected, the committee shall
return to each handler a pro rata share of assessments that are not
paid to the department or expended by the committee.
Acts 1981, 67th Leg., p. 1270, ch. 388, Sec. 1, eff. Sept. 1, 1981.

Statute text rendered on: 8/6/2022

- 681 -

AGRICULTURE CODE

