Sec. 74.004. DESTRUCTION OF HOST PLANTS. (a) The department
may establish regulated areas, dates, and appropriate methods of
destruction of stalks, other parts, and products of host plants for
cotton pests, including requirements for destruction of foliage,
fruiting structures, and root systems of host plants after the
harvest deadline.
(b) If on inspection of a field after the harvest deadline, the
department determines that host plants or any parts or products of
host plants have not been destroyed within the time specified by
regulation of the department, the department may declare the field to
be a public nuisance.
(c) On the declaration of a field as a public nuisance, the
department may take any action necessary to complete destruction of
host plants or host plant products or parts to prevent the spread of
cotton pests from the infested area and shall:
(1) immediately give written notice to any farm owner and
to the operator in charge of the field that the field is in violation
of this section, instructing the owner and operator to destroy host
plants or host plant products or parts within seven days after the
date written notice is issued;
(2) post for a period of three consecutive days a copy of
the notice on or in the immediate vicinity of the field in violation,
Statute text rendered on: 8/6/2022

- 468 -

AGRICULTURE CODE

if either the owner or operator of the field cannot be located after
a reasonably diligent effort by the department; and
(3) have the host plants or host plant products or parts
destroyed, if no response is received by the department from either
the owner or operator within four days after the date of posting of
the notice at the field or if the department considers a response
inadequate.
(d) If adverse weather conditions or other good cause exists,
the commissioner may, on written request by a farm owner or operator,
grant an extension of the date of implementation of appropriate host
plant or host plant product or part destruction.
(e) If it becomes necessary for the department to contract with
someone to destroy host plants or host plant products or parts, the
farm owner or operator shall reimburse the department for 1-1/2 times
the actual costs required for destruction.
(f) If neither the farm owner nor operator reimburses the
department as provided by Subsection (e) of this section within 30
days after the date of the completion of department action and
issuance by the department of a bill requesting payment, the
department may place a lien against the property on which a violation
of a department regulation under this section has occurred.
(g) The department may perfect the lien by filing the lien, a
sworn statement of the indebtedness, and a description of the
property subject to the lien with the county clerk of the county in
which the property is located. The lien must be filed within a 30day period following the expiration of the 30-day period described in
Subsection (f) of this section. Within 180 days after the date of
filing the lien, the department may file suit in a court of competent
jurisdiction for collection of the account and foreclosure of the
lien. Neither the department nor any person to whom the account is
assigned may be required to post a cost bond in the suit. The court
shall enter judgment for the debt with interest and costs of suit and
foreclosing the lien on premises as the court determines necessary
for the defraying of expenses, court costs, and the fees owed.
(h) All reimbursements and additional costs collected under
this section shall be deposited in the State Treasury in a special
fund to be appropriated to the department to carry out this
subchapter.
(i) Reimbursement under Subsection (e) of this section does not
prevent the department from seeking criminal or civil sanctions under
Statute text rendered on: 8/6/2022

- 469 -

AGRICULTURE CODE

this subchapter.
(j) In this section, "harvest deadline" means a deadline set by
the department for harvesting a certain crop or, in the absence of a
department deadline, the 31st day after the date by which the crop is
customarily harvested in the region, as determined by the department.
Amended by Acts 1987, 70th Leg., ch. 691, Sec. 1, eff. Sept. 1, 1987;
Acts 1989, 71st Leg., ch. 230, Sec. 71, eff. Sept. 1, 1989; Acts
1993, 73rd Leg., ch. 847, Sec. 1, eff. Aug. 30, 1993; Acts 1995,
74th Leg., ch. 957, Sec. 4, eff. June 16, 1995.
Amended by:
Acts 2021, 87th Leg., R.S., Ch. 848 (S.B. 703), Sec. 21, eff.
September 1, 2021.

