Sec. 14.041. CASUALTY INSURANCE. (a) Except as provided by
Subsections (c) and (d), an applicant for a license must file or have
on file with the department a certificate of insurance evidencing
Statute text rendered on: 8/6/2022

- 110 -

AGRICULTURE CODE

that:
(1) the applicant has an effective policy of insurance
issued by an insurance company authorized to do business in this
state or, with the approval of the department, by an eligible surplus
lines insurer that meets the requirements of Chapter 981, Insurance
Code, and rules adopted by the commissioner of insurance under that
chapter; and
(2) the policy insures, in the name of the applicant, all
depositor grain that is or may be in the public grain warehouse for
its full market value against loss by or due to water or other fluid
resulting from an insured peril, excluding flood and other rising
waters resulting from natural causes, malicious mischief, vandalism,
smoke, fire, internal explosion, lightning, hail, windstorm,
hurricane, or tornado.
(b) If water or other fluid resulting from an insured peril,
excluding flood and other rising waters resulting from natural
causes, malicious mischief, vandalism, smoke, fire, internal
explosion, lightning, hail, windstorm, hurricane, or tornado destroys
or damages grain in a public grain warehouse, the warehouse operator
shall, on demand by the depositor and presentation of a receipt or
other evidence of ownership, make settlement with the depositor of
the grain. The amount of the settlement shall be the average price
paid for grain of the same grade and quality on the date of the loss
at the location of the warehouse, minus the warehouse operator's
charges and advances. If a settlement is not made before the 31st
day following the date of demand, the depositor is entitled to seek
recovery from the insurance company.
(c) An applicant is not required to file a certificate of
insurance if the applicant certifies in writing, at or before the
time the certificate of insurance is due, that all grain within the
warehouse at the time the license is to be effective is or will be
owned by the applicant free of any lien. The applicant shall file
the required certificate of insurance on or before the first day any
grain not owned by the applicant free of any lien is stored for hire,
handled for hire, or shipped for hire.
(d) An applicant for a license shall insure depositor grain for
its full market value against loss by or due to fire or windstorm if
the grain is in temporary or emergency storage. The certificate
required under Subsection (a) must evidence that the applicant has an
effective policy of insurance under this subsection before the
Statute text rendered on: 8/6/2022

- 111 -

AGRICULTURE CODE

applicant may store depositor grain in temporary or emergency
storage.
Renumbered from Sec. 14.011 and amended by Acts 2001, 77th Leg., ch.
1124, Sec. 1, eff. Sept. 1, 2001; Acts 2003, 78th Leg., ch. 196,
