Sec. 58.034. GENERAL PROVISIONS RELATING TO BONDS. (a) The
authority's bonds may be issued from time to time in one or more
series or issues, in bearer, registered, or any other form, which may
include registered uncertified obligations not represented by written
instruments and commonly known as book-entry obligations, the
registration of ownership and transfer of which shall be provided for
by the authority under a system of books and records maintained by
the authority or by an agent appointed by the authority in resolution
providing for issuance of its bonds. Bonds may mature serially or
otherwise not more than 40 years from their date. Bonds may bear no
interest or may bear interest at any rate or rates, fixed, variable,
floating, or otherwise, determined by the board or determined
pursuant to any contractual arrangements approved by the board, not
to exceed the maximum net effective interest rate allowed by Chapter
1204, Government Code. Interest on the bonds may be payable at any
time, and the rate of interest on the bonds may be adjusted at such
time as may be determined by the board or as may be determined
pursuant to any contractual arrangement approved by the board. In
connection with the issuance of its bonds, the board may exercise the
powers granted to the governing body of an issuer in connection with
the issuance of obligations under Chapter 1371, Government Code, to
the extent not inconsistent with this chapter.
(b) The bonds issued under this chapter and interest coupons,
if any, are investment securities under the terms of Chapter 8,
Business & Commerce Code. The bonds are exempt securities under The
Securities Act (Title 12, Government Code), and unless specifically
provided otherwise, under any subsequently enacted securities act.
Any contract, guaranty, or any other document executed in connection
with the issuance of bonds pursuant to this chapter is not a security
under The Securities Act (Title 12, Government Code) and, unless
specifically provided otherwise, any subsequently enacted securities
act. The board is authorized to do all things necessary to qualify
the bonds for offer and sale under the securities laws and
regulations of the United States and of the states and other
jurisdictions in the United States as the board shall determine.
(c) The bonds may be issued in the form and denominations and
executed in the manner and under the terms, conditions, and details
determined as provided by the board in the resolution authorizing
Statute text rendered on: 8/6/2022

- 305 -

AGRICULTURE CODE

their issuance. If any officer whose manual or facsimile signature
appears on the bonds ceases to be an officer, the signature is still
valid and sufficient for all purposes as if the officer had remained
in office.
(d) All bonds issued by the authority are subject to review and
approval by the attorney general in the same manner and with the same
effect as is provided by Chapter 1371, Government Code.
(e) No fee may be charged by any other agency of this state in
connection with the issuance of the bonds or the allocation of a
portion of the state volume limitation on private activity bonds
either under executive order or legislative enactment. No
proceeding, notice, or approval is required for the issuance of any
bonds or any instrument as security except as provided by this Act.
Nothing in this subsection may be constituted to deprive the state
and its governmental subdivisions of their respective police powers
or to impair any police power of any official or agency of the state
or its subdivisions as may be provided by law.
(f) The state pledges to and agrees with the owners of any
bonds issued in accordance with this chapter that the state will not
limit or alter the rights vested in the authority to fulfill the
terms of any agreements made with the owners of the bonds or in any
way impair the rights and remedies of those owners until those bonds,
together with any premium and the interest on the bonds and all costs
and expenses in connection with any action or proceeding by or on
behalf of those owners, are fully met and discharged. The authority
is authorized to include this pledge and agreement of the state in
any agreement with the owners of those bonds.
(g) The bonds may be sold at public or private sale with or
without public bidding in the manner, at such rate or rates, price or
prices, and on such terms as may be determined by the board or
determined as provided in any contractual arrangement approved by the
board. The board also may enter into any contractual arrangement
under which the bonds are to be sold from time to time, or subject to
purchase, at such prices and rates, interest rate or payment periods,
and terms as determined pursuant to that contractual arrangement
approved by the board.
(h) Pending the preparation of definitive bonds, interim
receipts or certificates in the form and with the provisions that are
provided in the resolution may be issued to the purchaser or
purchasers of bonds sold under this chapter.
Statute text rendered on: 8/6/2022

- 306 -

AGRICULTURE CODE

(i) The board may provide procedures for the replacement of a
mutilated, lost, stolen, or destroyed bond or interest coupon.
(j) The resolutions of the board issuing bonds may contain
other provisions and covenants as the board may determine.
(k) The board may adopt and have executed any other proceedings
or instruments necessary and convenient in the issuance of bonds.
(l) Repealed by Acts 1993, 73rd Leg., ch. 433, Sec. 1, eff.
Aug. 30, 1993.
Added by Acts 1987, 70th Leg., 2nd C.S., ch. 32, art. 2, Sec. 1, eff.
Oct. 20, 1987; Acts 1989, 71st Leg., ch. 1247, Sec. 1, eff. Sept. 1,
1989. Amended by Acts 1993, 73rd Leg., ch. 433, Sec. 1, eff. Aug.
30, 1993; Acts 2001, 77th Leg., ch. 1420, Sec. 8.202, eff. Sept. 1,
2001.
Amended by:
Acts 2019, 86th Leg., R.S., Ch. 491 (H.B. 4171), Sec. 2.02, eff.
January 1, 2022.

