Sec. 58.032. TEXAS AGRICULTURAL FUND. (a) The Texas
agricultural fund is a fund in the state treasury.
(b) The Texas agricultural fund may, at the direction of the
board, receive from the state or federal government or from any other
person, money that is to be administered by the authority in
connection with the provision of financial assistance to eligible
agricultural businesses under any program funded in whole or in part
with the proceeds of general obligation bonds issued to carry out the
purpose of this chapter.
(c) The board may provide for the establishment and maintenance
of separate accounts within the Texas agricultural fund, including
program accounts as prescribed by the board, an interest and sinking
account, a reserve account, and other accounts provided for by the
board in its resolutions. Repayments of financial assistance under
any program funded in whole or in part with the proceeds of any
series of general obligation bonds shall be deposited first in the
interest and sinking account as prescribed by the board's resolutions
authorizing such series of general obligation bonds, and second in
the reserve account in respect of such series of general obligation
bonds until that account is fully funded as prescribed by the board's
resolutions. The fund and all accounts within it shall be kept and
maintained at the direction of the board and held in trust by the
comptroller for and on behalf of the authority and the owners of the
general obligation bonds issued in accordance with this chapter, and
may be used only as provided by this chapter. Pending its use, money
in the fund shall be invested as prescribed by the resolution by
which the bonds were issued.
(d) To the extent the board determines that any money credited
to the Texas agricultural fund from repayments of financial
assistance is not required by Subsection (c) of this section and the
resolutions of the board to be held in the interest and sinking
account or reserve account to provide for the payment of the
principal of and interest on the outstanding general obligation bonds
issued by the authority, that money may be used by the authority to
pay the principal of and interest on revenue bonds issued by the
authority or for any other authorized purpose of the authority, in
accordance with this chapter and the authority's resolutions
authorizing general obligation bonds.
(e) If during the existence of the Texas agricultural fund or
during the time any general obligation bonds are payable from the
Statute text rendered on: 8/6/2022

- 301 -

AGRICULTURE CODE

fund the board determines that there will not be sufficient money in
the interest and sinking account during the following fiscal year to
pay the principal of or interest on the general obligation bonds or
both the principal and interest that are to come due during the
following fiscal year, the comptroller of public accounts shall
transfer to the fund the first money coming into the state treasury
not otherwise appropriated by the constitution in an amount
sufficient to pay the obligations.
(f) The department may receive, and shall deposit in the Texas
agricultural fund, appropriations, grants, donations, earned federal
funds, and the proceeds of any investment pools operated by the
comptroller.
(g) The fund includes grants and donations made for the
purposes of the programs administered by the Texas Agricultural
Finance Authority and any other money received under this chapter.
Notwithstanding Section 404.071, Government Code, income and interest
earned on money in the fund shall be deposited to the credit of the
fund.
The fund is exempt from the application of Section 403.095,
Government Code.
(h) The board shall attempt to administer the fund in a manner
that makes private donations to the fund an eligible itemized
deduction for federal income taxation purposes.
Added by Acts 1987, 70th Leg., 2nd C.S., ch. 32, art. 2, Sec. 1, eff.
Oct. 20, 1987; Acts 1989, 71st Leg., ch. 1247, Sec. 1, eff. Sept. 1,
1989. Amended by Acts 1989, 71st Leg., ch. 455, Sec. 9, eff. Aug.
28, 1989; Acts 1997, 75th Leg., ch. 1423, Sec. 2.04, eff. Sept. 1,
1997.
Amended by:
Acts 2009, 81st Leg., R.S., Ch. 506 (S.B. 1016), Sec. 1.15, eff.
September 1, 2009.

