Sec. 201.042. HEARING. (a) Not later than the 30th day after
the day on which a petition is filed with the state board, the state
board shall give notice of a hearing on:
(1) the question of the desirability and necessity of the
creation of a conservation district in the interest of the public
health, safety, and welfare;
(2) the question of the appropriate boundaries to be
assigned to the conservation district;
(3) the propriety of the petitions and other proceedings
taken under this chapter; and
(4) all questions relevant to those matters.
(b) Following notice, the state board shall conduct a hearing
on the petition. Any interested person, including a person who is an
eligible voter in the territory described in the petition or in the
territory that is considered for addition to the described territory,
is entitled to attend the hearing and be heard.
(c) If it appears at the hearing that it may be desirable to
include within the conservation district territory that is outside
the area within which notice has been given, the state board shall
adjourn the hearing and give notice of further hearings throughout
the entire area considered for inclusion in the conservation
district. Following that notice, the board shall reconvene the
hearing.
(d) After the hearing, if the state board, on the basis of the
facts presented at the hearing and other available information,
determines that there is need, in the interest of the public health,
safety, and welfare, for a conservation district to function in the
territory considered at the hearing, the board shall record that
determination, define the boundaries of the conservation district by
metes and bounds or by legal subdivisions, and conduct an election in
Statute text rendered on: 8/6/2022

- 1030 -

AGRICULTURE CODE

accordance with Section 201.043 of this code. The board may not
include within the defined boundaries any territory that is within
the boundaries of another conservation district.
(e) In making the determination of need and defining the
boundaries of the conservation district, the state board shall give
due weight and consideration to:
(1) the topography of the area considered and of the state;
(2) the soil composition of the area considered and of the
state;
(3) the distribution of erosion, the prevailing land-use
practices, and the desirability and necessity of including within the
conservation district the area under consideration;
(4) the benefits the area under consideration may receive
from being included within the boundaries of the conservation
district;
(5) the relation of the area considered to existing
watersheds and agricultural regions and to other conservation
districts in existence or proposed to be created; and
(6) other relevant physical, geographical, and economic
factors, having due regard to the legislative determinations made in
Section 201.001 of this code.
(f) After the hearing and consideration of the relevant facts,
if the state board determines that there is no need for a
conservation district to function in the territory considered at the
hearing, it shall record that determination and deny the petition.
(g) The state board shall pay all expenses for the issuance of
notices of the public hearings. The board shall supervise the
conduct of those hearings and may adopt rules governing the conduct
of the hearings.
Acts 1981, 67th Leg., p. 1465, ch. 388, Sec. 1, eff. Sept. 1, 1981.

