Sec. 201.105. ACQUISITION, ADMINISTRATION, AND SALE OF
MATERIALS AND EQUIPMENT. (a) A conservation district may purchase
machinery, equipment, seed, seedlings, fertilizer, fish for stocking
farm ponds, or other supplies or conservation materials essential for
the purposes of a conservation district program and make them
available to owners and occupiers of land in the conservation
district. The conservation district shall provide for maintaining,
Statute text rendered on: 8/6/2022

- 1047 -

AGRICULTURE CODE

insuring, storing, and repairing the machinery and equipment.
(b) The district may charge a fee for the use of machinery and
equipment owned by the district that is calculated to pay the costs
of deterioration and replacement of the machinery and equipment.
(c) A conservation district may make any purchase of machinery
or equipment through the comptroller under the terms and rules
provided by law for purchases by the state or political subdivisions.
(d) A conservation district may charge persons who own or
occupy small amounts of land nominal amounts for projects benefiting
them if the directors determine it to be in the interest of the
general welfare.
(e) A conservation district may sell on open bids any machinery
or equipment considered obsolete or having served its purpose. The
funds earned or acquired by a conservation district from a source
other than the state or earned or acquired from the operation or sale
of machinery or equipment acquired from a source other than the state
shall be deposited in a trust fund account of the conservation
district and used for purposes considered by the directors to be in
the best interest of the conservation district.
(f) A conservation district shall use proceeds from the sale of
any fertilizer, seed, seedlings, fish for stocking farm ponds, or
other supplies or conservation materials to reimburse the
conservation district for the costs of the materials and
administration of the program and may fix the sale prices
accordingly.
Acts 1981, 67th Leg., p. 1474, ch. 388, Sec. 1, eff. Sept. 1, 1981.
Amended by Acts 1983, 68th Leg., p. 575, ch. 118, Sec. 1, eff. May
17, 1983.
Amended by:
Acts 2007, 80th Leg., R.S., Ch. 937 (H.B. 3560), Sec. 1.82, eff.
September 1, 2007.

