Sec. 80.007. BOARD ELECTIONS. (a) The initial election for
board members from a proposed pest management zone shall be held
concurrently with a pest management zone referendum held under
Section 80.006. Each pest management zone must be represented on the
board and remain represented on the board until suppression
operations are concluded and all debt of the pest management zone is
paid.
(b) A board election shall be conducted under the procedures
provided by this section and Section 80.016.
(c) A citrus producer who is eligible to vote in a referendum
or election under this chapter is eligible to be a candidate for and
member of the board if the person has at least seven years of
experience as a citrus producer and otherwise meets the
qualifications for the office.
(d) A citrus producer who wants to be a candidate for the board
must meet the qualifications for board membership and file an
application with the commissioner. The application must be:
(1) filed not later than the 30th day before the date set
for the board election;
(2) on a form approved by the commissioner; and
Statute text rendered on: 8/6/2022

- 594 -

AGRICULTURE CODE

(3) signed by at least 10 citrus producers who are eligible
to vote in the board election.
(e) On receipt of an application and verification that the
application meets the requirements of Subsection (d), an applicant's
name shall be placed on the ballot for the board election.
(f) An eligible voter may vote for a citrus producer whose name
does not appear on the official ballot by writing that person's name
on the ballot.
(g) A board election must be preceded by at least 45 days'
notice published in one or more newspapers published and distributed
in the proposed or established pest management zone. The notice
shall be published not less than once a week for three consecutive
weeks. Not later than the 45th day before the date of the election,
direct written notice of the election shall be given to each Texas
AgriLife Extension Service agent in the pest management zone.
(h) Each board member shall be sworn into office by a
representative of the commissioner by taking the oath of office
required for elected officers of the state.
Added by Acts 2009, 81st Leg., R.S., Ch. 506 (S.B. 1016), Sec. 10.01,
eff. September 1, 2009.

