Sec. 58.023. PROGRAMS RULES. (a) The board shall adopt rules
to establish criteria for determining which eligible agricultural
businesses may participate in programs that may be established by the
board. The board's rules must state that the policy of the authority
is to provide programs for providing financial assistance to eligible
agricultural businesses that the board considers to present a
reasonable risk and have a sufficient likelihood of repayment. In
establishing criteria for participation, the board shall give
priority to eligible agricultural businesses that include producers
of Texas agricultural products in the ownership of the businesses.
The board shall adopt collateral or security requirements to ensure
the full repayment of that financial assistance and the solvency of
any program implemented under this chapter. The board shall approve
any and all extensions of that financial assistance under this
chapter, provided that the board may delegate this approval authority
to the administrator or the commissioner.
(b) The board shall also adopt rules to establish criteria for
lenders that may participate in the programs that may be established
by the board.
(c) Eligible agricultural businesses or lenders participating
in the authority's programs shall pay the costs of applying for,
participating in, and administering and servicing the program, in
amounts the board considers reasonable and necessary. The board
shall charge an administrative fee for guaranteeing a loan under
Subchapter E that may not be less than one percent of the amount of
the guaranteed loan.
Any costs not paid by the eligible
agricultural businesses or lenders shall be paid from the funds of
the authority, including those funds established from bond proceeds.
(d) The board by rule shall adopt an agreement to be used
between a lender and an approved applicant under which the authority
makes a payment from the Texas agricultural fund for the purpose of
Statute text rendered on: 8/6/2022

- 298 -

AGRICULTURE CODE

providing a reduced interest rate on a loan guaranteed to a borrower.
The agreement must require the borrower to use the proceeds of the
loan for the purposes of the program under which the payment is made.
The board shall adopt rules to implement this subsection.
Added by Acts 1987, 70th Leg., 2nd C.S., ch. 32, art. 2, Sec. 1, eff.
Oct. 20, 1987. Amended by Acts 1999, 76th Leg., ch. 1459, Sec. 12,
eff. June 19, 1999; Acts 2001, 77th Leg., ch. 26, Sec. 8, eff. May
2, 2001.
Amended by:
Acts 2009, 81st Leg., R.S., Ch. 506 (S.B. 1016), Sec. 1.08, eff.
September 1, 2009.

