Sec. 125.002.
Statute text rendered on: 8/6/2022

DEFINITIONS.

In this chapter:

- 722 -

AGRICULTURE CODE

(1) "Agricultural laborer" means a person who plants,
cultivates, harvests, or handles an agricultural or horticultural
commodity in its unmanufactured state as determined by rule of the
department, and includes an agricultural laborer who handles a
chemical covered by this chapter. Office workers, cooks, maintenance
workers, security personnel, and nonresident management are not
agricultural laborers, except for purposes of a gross annual payroll
determination, unless their job performance routinely involves
potential exposure to chemicals covered under this chapter. Farm and
ranch laborers working solely with livestock and persons working
solely in the retail sales component of a business are not
agricultural laborers for purposes of this chapter.
(2) "Chemical name" means the scientific designation of a
chemical in accordance with the nomenclature system developed by the
International Union of Pure and Applied Chemistry (IUPAC) or the
Chemical Abstracts Service (CAS) rules of nomenclature, or a name
that will clearly identify the chemical for the purpose of conducting
a hazard evaluation.
(3) "Common name" means any designation of identification
such as code name, code number, trade name, brand name, or generic
name used to identify a chemical other than by its chemical name.
(4) "Chemical manufacturer" means an employer in Standard
Industrial Classification (SIC) Codes 20 through 39.
(5) "Designated representative" means the individual or
organization to whom an agricultural laborer gives written
authorization to exercise the laborer's rights under this chapter. A
designated representative is not required to reveal the name of the
agricultural laborer he represents if the department has reviewed the
laborer's written authorization, certifies that the representative
has that authorization, and determines that the agricultural laborer
would be entitled to the information the designated representative is
seeking to obtain. A recognized or certified collective bargaining
agent shall be treated automatically as a designated representative
without regard to written authorization from a laborer.
(6) "Distributor" means any business, other than a chemical
manufacturer or importer, that supplies chemicals covered by this
chapter to other distributors or to purchasers.
(7) "Expose" or "exposure" means that an agricultural
laborer is subjected to a chemical covered by this chapter in the
course of employment through any route of entry, including
Statute text rendered on: 8/6/2022

- 723 -

AGRICULTURE CODE

inhalation, ingestion, skin contact, or absorption, and includes
potential, possible, or accidental exposure.
(8) "Fire chief" means the elected or paid administrative
head of a fire department as defined in Chapter 125, Acts of the 45th
Legislature, Regular Session, 1937 (Article 6243e, Vernon's Texas
Civil Statutes).
(9) "Label" means any written, printed, or graphic material
displayed on or affixed to containers of chemicals covered by this
chapter.
(10) "Material safety data sheet" ("MSDS") means a document
containing chemical hazard and safe handling information that is
prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Occupational
Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) standard for that document
or, in the case of a chemical labeled under the federal Insecticide,
Fungicide, and Rodenticide Act (7 U.S.C. Section 136 et seq.) for
which an MSDS is both unavailable and not required under the federal
OSHA's hazard communication standard, a product label or other
equivalent document with precautionary statements, such as hazards to
humans and domestic animals, and environmental, physical, or chemical
hazards, including warning statements.
(11) "Work area" means a room, defined space, or field
where chemicals covered by this chapter are stored or used and where
agricultural laborers may be present.
(12) "Workplace" means a geographical location containing
one or more work areas.
Added by Acts 1987, 70th Leg., ch. 903, Sec. 1, eff. Jan. 1, 1988.

