Sec. 61.011. AGRICULTURAL SEED INSPECTION FEE AND PERMIT. (a)
A person who sells, or offers, exposes, or otherwise distributes for
sale agricultural seed within this state for planting purposes shall
pay an inspection fee in the manner provided by Subsection (b) or (c)
of this section. A person may not use both procedures for fee
payment. The person shall pay the fee during each germination period
that the seed remains offered or exposed for sale. If the
germination test has expired on any seed, the custodian of the seed
is responsible for payment of the fee.
(b) In order to pay the fee, a person may purchase from the
department a label known as the "Texas Tested Seed Label." The
department by rule may prescribe the form of the label and the manner
of showing the information required by Section 61.004 of this code.
The purchaser shall attach the label to each container of seed sold
or offered or otherwise distributed for sale. If the seed is in
bulk, the person selling or offering, exposing, or otherwise
distributing the seed for sale shall furnish the purchaser one Texas
Tested Seed Label for each 100 pounds or fraction of 100 pounds of
seed.
(c) Instead of purchasing a Texas Tested Seed Label, a person
may pay the fee on the total number of pounds of seed sold or
offered, exposed, or otherwise distributed for sale in this state.
In order to pay the fee on this basis, the person must apply to the
department for a permit. The department shall issue to each
applicant a permit bearing an assigned number. The holder of the
permit shall:
(1) maintain records, as required by the department, that
accurately reflect the total pounds of seed subject to the fee that
are handled, sold, or offered or distributed for sale;
(2) file with the department quarterly sworn reports
covering the total pounds of all sales of seed subject to the fee
sold during the preceding quarter; and
(3) affix to each container of seed subject to the fee or
to the invoice of subject seed sold in bulk a plainly written
statement of the information required under Section 61.004 of this
code.
(d) Quarterly reports filed under Subsection (c)(2) of this
Statute text rendered on: 8/6/2022

- 364 -

AGRICULTURE CODE

section are due within 30 days after the last day of November,
February, May, and August. Unless filed in accordance with prior
written approval of the department for late filing, a person who does
not file the report within the allotted time shall pay to the
department a penalty fee, as provided by department rule.
(e) The department is entitled to examine the records of a
permittee under Subsection (c) of this section during regular
business hours. If the permittee is located outside of this state,
the permittee shall maintain the records and information required by
Subsection (c) of this section in this state or pay all costs
incurred in the auditing of records at another location. The
department shall promptly furnish to the permittee an itemized
statement of any costs incurred in an out-of-state audit and the
permittee shall pay the costs not later than the 30th day following
the date of the statement.
(f) The department may set the fee, prescribe and furnish
forms, and require the filing of reports necessary for the payment of
the inspection fee.
Acts 1981, 67th Leg., p. 1130, ch. 388, Sec. 1, eff. Sept. 1, 1981.
Amended by Acts 1993, 73rd Leg., ch. 978, Sec. 2, eff. Aug. 30, 1993;
Acts 1995, 74th Leg., ch. 419, Sec. 2.22, eff. Sept. 1, 1995.

