Sec. 167.024. MOVEMENT IN OR FROM QUARANTINED AREA. (a)
Unless a person first obtains a permit or a certificate from an
authorized inspector, the person may not move animals in a
Statute text rendered on: 8/6/2022

- 958 -

AGRICULTURE CODE

quarantined area:
(1) from land owned, leased, or occupied by one person into
or through any other land owned, leased, or occupied by another
person; or
(2) onto any open range, public street, public road, or
thoroughfare.
(b) Unless the person first obtains a permit or a certificate
from an authorized inspector, the owner or caretaker of animals in a
quarantined area may not move the animals, or permit the animals to
be moved, from an enclosure owned, leased, or occupied by that
person, from any open range, street, road, or thoroughfare, or from
any land that the person does not own or control, into any other
enclosure or other land owned, cared for, or controlled by that
person, if:
(1) the animals are subject to treatment under this chapter
and the land or enclosure to which the animals are moved:
(A) is classified in the records of the county
supervising inspector as being free from ticks; or
(B) has been released from quarantine by the
commission; or
(2) the animals are subject to treatment but are not being
treated under this chapter in the conduct of regular systematic tick
eradication by the commission and the land or enclosure to which the
animals are moved is owned or controlled by that person and:
(A) tick eradication work is being conducted there; or
(B) the land or enclosure is vacated under the
direction of the commission for the purpose of tick eradication.
(c) The owner or caretaker of animals located in a quarantined
area may move animals, or permit animals to be moved, to and from
treatment facilities for the purpose of treating the animals on a
regular treatment date at the treatment facility to which the animals
are to be moved or on another date designated by the inspector in
charge of the treatment facility. The movement of animals under this
subsection must be in accordance with the rules of the commission.
Any other movement is considered to be in violation of the
quarantine.
(d) In this section, "other land" means land that is separated
from the land from which movement is made by a fence, dividing line,
or the land of another person.

Statute text rendered on: 8/6/2022

- 959 -

AGRICULTURE CODE

Acts 1981, 67th Leg., p. 1439, ch. 388, Sec. 1, eff. Sept. 1, 1981.
Amended by:
Acts 2013, 83rd Leg., R.S., Ch. 324 (H.B. 1807), Sec. 8, eff.
September 1, 2013.
Acts 2013, 83rd Leg., R.S., Ch. 773 (S.B. 1095), Sec. 8, eff.
September 1, 2013.

