Sec. 188.038. TERMINATION STATEMENT. (a) If a lien claimant
receives payment for the total amount secured by a lien under this
chapter and the lien claimant has not furnished animal feed during
the 45-day period before the date on which payment is received, the
lien claimant shall file a termination statement with the secretary
of state and shall send the lien debtor a copy of the statement as
provided by this section. The statement shall state that the lien
claimant no longer claims a security interest under the notice of
claim of lien.
(b) The notice of claim of lien must be identified in the
statement under Subsection (a) by the date, names of parties to the
agreement, and file number of the original lien.
(c) If the lien claimant does not send the termination
statement required by this section before the 11th day after the date
Statute text rendered on: 8/6/2022

- 1003 -

AGRICULTURE CODE

on which the lien claimant received payment, the lien claimant is
liable to the lien debtor for actual damages suffered by the lien
debtor as a result of the failure. If the lien claimant acts in bad
faith in failing to send the statement, the lien claimant is liable
for an additional penalty of $100.
(d) The filing officer in the secretary of state's office shall
mark each termination statement with the date and time of filing and
shall index the statement under the name of the lien debtor and under
the file number of the original lien. If the filing officer has a
microfilm or other photographic record of the lien and related
filings, the filing officer may destroy the filed notice of claim of
lien at any time after receiving the termination statement. If the
filing officer does not have a photographic record, the filing
officer may destroy the filed notice of claim of lien at any time
after the first anniversary of the date on which the filing officer
received the termination statement.
(e) The uniform filing fee for filing and indexing the
termination statement is the same as the fee assessed under Section
9.525, Business & Commerce Code.
Added by Acts 1995, 74th Leg., ch. 197, Sec. 2, eff. Sept. 1, 1995.
Amended by Acts 1999, 76th Leg., ch. 414, Sec. 2.09, eff. July 1,
2001.

