Sec. 80.022. AUTHORITY TO ADOPT RULES. (a) The commissioner
shall adopt rules to protect individuals, livestock, wildlife, and
honeybee colonies on any premises in a pest management zone on which
citrus plants are being grown that have been or are being treated to
control or suppress pests.
(b) Rules adopted under this section shall establish the
criteria by which the corporation develops its procedures and methods
of treatment, which shall:
(1) establish a methodology for determining when pest
population levels have reached economic significance or when disease
is present;
(2) establish an effective treatment regimen that seeks to
provide the least possible risk to workers, the public, and the
environment;
(3) minimize the effects of the use of pesticides on longterm control methods, including but not limited to the effect a
particular pesticide may have on biological controls;
(4) establish methods for monitoring pests;
(5) establish methods for verifying pesticide use
reduction; and
(6) consider the acute and chronic toxicity of particular
pesticides and the quantity of particular pesticides needed. Pest
management zone treatment plans may take into account the potential
for the use of smaller quantities of more toxic substances to result
in fewer health and environmental risks than larger quantities of
less toxic substances.
(c) The commissioner may adopt other reasonable rules necessary
to carry out the purposes of this chapter. All rules issued under
this chapter must be adopted and published in accordance with the
Statute text rendered on: 8/6/2022

- 610 -

AGRICULTURE CODE

laws of this state.
(d) An advisory committee may be established to assist the
commissioner in the development of rules under this section. The
advisory committee may be composed of:
(1) three citrus producers from the commercial citrus
growing area of the state, appointed by the commissioner;
(2) three entomologists with knowledge of the principles of
integrated pest management, at least one of whom has special
knowledge of nonchemical or biological pest control, appointed by the
commissioner;
(3) two individuals with experience representing the
general interests of the environment, appointed by the chair of the
Texas Commission on Environmental Quality;
(4) an environmental engineer with expert knowledge of
ground and surface water protection from contamination, appointed by
the chair of the Texas Commission on Environmental Quality; and
(5) a toxicologist, appointed by the commissioner of state
health services.
Added by Acts 2009, 81st Leg., R.S., Ch. 506 (S.B. 1016), Sec. 10.01,
eff. September 1, 2009.
Amended by:
Acts 2015, 84th Leg., R.S., Ch. 29 (S.B. 1749), Sec. 11, eff.
September 1, 2015.

