Sec. 12.038. OFFICE OF RURAL AFFAIRS. (a) The department
shall establish and maintain an Office of Rural Affairs. The office
shall be headed by a rural affairs director. To be eligible to serve
as the rural affairs director, a person must have demonstrated a
strong commitment to and involvement in economic development
activities in rural areas.
(b) The Office of Rural Affairs shall:
(1) develop a rural resource guide and provide the
information to rural areas through print and electronic media and
through use of the Texas Business and Community Economic Development
Clearinghouse;
Statute text rendered on: 8/6/2022

- 43 -

AGRICULTURE CODE

(2) provide information to state agencies on the effects of
proposed policies or actions that affect rural areas;
(3) cosponsor meetings, to the extent practical, in
cooperation with public and private educational institutions to
disseminate information beneficial to rural areas;
(4) identify potential opportunities for businesses in
rural areas and assist these businesses to maximize those
opportunities;
(5) conduct an analysis of the available federal, state,
and local government and rural economic development business outreach
and data services in rural areas of this state by examining the
availability of:
(A) computerized economic development databases that
provide data for existing and prospective businesses and communities
in rural areas of this state; and
(B) business information outreach service offices or
centers that provide comprehensive technical assistance, research,
consulting services, training, and other services to businesses in
rural areas; and
(6) perform any other functions necessary to carry out the
purposes of this section.
(c) In administering this section, the department may:
(1) employ and set the compensation of personnel to carry
out the Office of Rural Affairs' functions under this section; and
(2) consult with:
(A) experts and authorities in the fields of rural
development, economic development, and community development;
(B) individuals with regulatory, legal, economic, or
financial expertise, including members of the academic community;
and
(C) individuals who represent the public interest.
(d) Each state agency must, on request, furnish the Office of
Rural Affairs with reports and other information necessary to enable
the Office of Rural Affairs to carry out the purposes of this
section.
(e) The Office of Rural Affairs may accept gifts, grants, and
donations from sources other than the state for the purpose of
performing specific projects, studies, or procedures or to provide
assistance to rural areas.
(f) Repealed by Acts 2011, 82nd Leg., R.S., Ch. 1083, Sec.
Statute text rendered on: 8/6/2022

- 44 -

AGRICULTURE CODE

25(3), eff. June 17, 2011.
Renumbered from Government Code Sec. 481.0067 by Acts 2001, 77th
Leg., ch. 1437, Sec. 1, eff. Sept. 1, 2001.
Amended by:
Acts 2011, 82nd Leg., R.S., Ch. 1083 (S.B. 1179), Sec. 25(3),
eff. June 17, 2011.

