Sec. 125.005.
Statute text rendered on: 8/6/2022

WORKPLACE CHEMICAL LIST FORM, MAINTENANCE, AND
- 725 -

AGRICULTURE CODE

ACCESS. (a) The department shall prescribe forms for workplace
chemical lists required by this chapter with places to indicate the
crop, the product name of the chemical that is applied to the crop or
that is stored, and the location and date of its application, use, or
storage, as appropriate.
(b) An employer covered by this chapter shall maintain one form
for each crop, work area, or workplace as a whole, as appropriate,
and shall add information to the form as different chemicals are
applied, used, or stored.
(c) The employer shall attach relevant information to the form,
including MSDSs.
(d) The employer shall keep the forms and attachments
accessible and available for copying and shall store them in a
location suitable to preserve their physical integrity.
(e) The employer shall keep the forms and attachments under
this chapter for 30 years. However, the department shall provide by
rule that an employer may file with the department annually the forms
and attachments, including an estimate of the total amount of each
chemical listed on the form that was used. The department shall
categorize and cross-reference the data on the forms in a manner to
preserve the data for future medical use. An employer who files the
forms and attachments with the department under rules adopted under
this section is not required to preserve the forms.
(f) If it is determined after a hearing conducted under Section
12.032 that an employer has repeatedly failed to maintain the forms
and attachments as required, the department may require the employer
to file the documents with the department. In addition, the person
may be subject to any applicable penalties provided by this chapter.
(g) If agricultural activities for which forms and attachments
are maintained cease at a workplace, the forms and attachments shall
be filed with the department, and the department shall retain the
information for 30 years. If an employer covered by this chapter is
succeeded or replaced in that function by another person, the person
who succeeds or replaces the employer shall retain the forms as
provided by Subsection (e) of this section but is not liable for
violations committed by the former employer under this chapter or
rules adopted under this chapter, including violations relating to
the retention and preservation of forms and attachments.
(h) Except as otherwise provided by this section, the employer
shall show the forms and attachments, on request, to an employee,
Statute text rendered on: 8/6/2022

- 726 -

AGRICULTURE CODE

designated representative, treating medical personnel, or a member of
the community. The designated representative or treating medical
personnel are not required to identify the employee represented or
treated. If the employer has filed the forms and attachments with
the department, the employer shall inform the requestor of that fact.
(i) If a designated representative or member of the community
desires a copy of a form and attachments and the employer refuses to
provide a copy, that person shall notify the department of the
request and the employer's refusal. Within two working days, the
department shall request that the employer provide the department
with all pertinent copies. The employer shall provide copies of the
form and attachments to the department within 24 hours after the
department's request if a designated representative desires the
copies, and within 14 days after the department's request if a member
of the community desires the copies.
(j) The employer may not refuse to provide the forms and
attachments to an employee or treating medical personnel.
Added by Acts 1987, 70th Leg., ch. 903, Sec. 1, eff. Jan. 1, 1988.
Amended by Acts 1995, 74th Leg., ch. 419, Sec. 3.25, eff. Sept. 1,
1995.

