Sec. 161.054. REGULATION OF MOVEMENT OF ANIMALS; EXCEPTION.
(a) As a control measure, the commission by rule may regulate the
movement of animals, including feral swine. The commission may
restrict the intrastate movement of animals, including feral swine,
even though the movement of the animals is unrestricted in interstate
or international commerce. The commission may require testing,
vaccination, or another epidemiologically sound procedure before or
after animals are moved.
(b) The commission by rule may prohibit or regulate the
movement of animals, including feral swine, into a quarantined herd,
premise, or area.
(c) The commission may not adopt a rule that prohibits a person
from moving animals, including feral swine, owned by that person
within unquarantined contiguous lands owned or controlled by that
person.
Statute text rendered on: 8/6/2022

- 894 -

AGRICULTURE CODE

(d) On application of the owner of an animal, including a feral
swine, a restriction on the movement of the animal imposed under
this chapter may be modified by order of the executive director of
the commission if the owner demonstrates that the restriction will
result in unusual hardship for the owner. In considering an
application under this section, the executive director may consider
the effect of prolonged drought, inadequacy of pasturage or unusual
feed supply resulting from disaster or other unforeseeable
circumstances, or economic hardship.
(e) In connection with the regulation of the movement of feral
swine, the commission by rule may require disease testing before
movement of a feral swine from one location to another, and establish
the conditions under which feral swine may be transported.
(f) The commission's authority to regulate the movement of
feral swine may not interfere with the authority of the Parks and
Wildlife Department to regulate the hunting or trapping of feral
swine.
Added by Acts 1995, 74th Leg., ch. 31, Sec. 1, eff. April 27, 1995.
Amended by:
Acts 2007, 80th Leg., R.S., Ch. 1242 (H.B. 2543), Sec. 13, eff.
September 1, 2007.

