Sec. 76.101. COORDINATION. (a) The department is the lead
agency in the regulation of pesticide use and application and is
responsible for coordinating activities of state agencies, except as
provided by Section 76.007(b) of this code and by Chapter 26 of the
Water Code. The department shall submit a state plan for the
licensing of pesticide applicators to the administrator of the
Environmental Protection Agency.
(b) The department shall coordinate, plan, and approve training
programs and shall use the public and private resources of this
state, including state universities, colleges, junior colleges,
community colleges, the Texas Agricultural Extension Service, and the
Texas Agricultural Experiment Station. The department and the Texas
Agricultural Extension Service shall adopt a memorandum of
understanding to jointly coordinate, plan, and approve the training
programs for private applicators.
(c) The department shall make plans under this section on the
basis of convenience to applicants, thoroughness of preparation and
testing, and maximum economy in expenditures for this purpose. The
department shall make full use of grants-in-aid and cooperative
agreements in administering this subchapter.
(d)(1) Except as otherwise provided by this subsection, no city,
town, county, or other political subdivision of this state shall
adopt any ordinance, rule, or regulation regarding pesticide sale or
use.
(2) Nothing in this subsection shall be construed to limit
the authority of a city, town, or county to:
(A) encourage locally approved and provided educational
material concerning a pesticide;
(B) zone for the sale or storage of such products;
(C) adopt fire or building regulations as preventative
measures to protect the public and emergency services personnel from
an accident or emergency involving such products, including
regulations governing the storage of such products or governing
fumigation and thermal insecticidal fogging operations;
(D) provide or designate sites for the disposal of such
Statute text rendered on: 8/6/2022

- 528 -

AGRICULTURE CODE

products;
(E) route hazardous materials; or
(F) regulate discharge to sanitary sewer systems.
(3) This subsection shall not prevent a city, town, county,
or any political subdivision from complying with any federal or state
law or regulation. This subsection shall not prevent a city, town,
county, or any political subdivision from attaining or maintaining
compliance with federal or state environmental standards including
Texas water quality standards. A city, town, county, or other
political subdivision may take any action otherwise prohibited by
this subsection in order to comply with any federal requirements, to
avoid any federal or state penalties or fines, or to attain or
maintain federal or state environmental standards including Texas
water quality standards.
Acts 1981, 67th Leg., p. 1196, ch. 388, Sec. 1, eff. Sept. 1, 1981.
Amended by Acts 1989, 71st Leg., ch. 230, Sec. 86, eff. Sept. 1,
1989; Acts 1993, 73rd Leg., ch. 96, Sec. 1, eff. May 7, 1993; Acts
1997, 75th Leg., ch. 1369, Sec. 1, eff. Sept. 1, 1997.

