Sec. 201.152. CONTRACTS FOR FLOOD CONTROL AND DRAINAGE. (a) A
county, city, water control and improvement district, drainage
district, or other political subdivision may contract with a
conservation district for the joint acquisition of rights-of-way or
for joint construction or maintenance of dams, flood retention
structures, canals, drains, levees, or other improvements for flood
control and drainage related to flood control or for making the
necessary outlets and maintaining them. The contracts and agreements
may contain terms, provisions, and details that the governing bodies
of the respective political subdivisions determine to be necessary
under the facts and circumstances.
(b) A county, city, water control and improvement district,
drainage district, or other political subdivision may contribute
funds to a conservation district for the construction or maintenance
of canals, dams, flood retention structures, drains, levees, and
other improvements for flood control and drainage related to flood
control or for making the necessary outlets and maintaining them.
The political subdivision may contribute the funds regardless of
whether title to the property is vested in the State of Texas or a
conservation district if the work to be accomplished is for the
mutual benefit of the donor and the agency or political subdivision
having title to the property on which the improvements are located.
(c) A county, city, water control and improvement district,
drainage district, or other political subdivision may contribute
funds to a conservation district for a specific purpose authorized by
this chapter or for use in the exercise of any power or duty
conferred on a conservation district by this chapter that will
Statute text rendered on: 8/6/2022

- 1058 -

AGRICULTURE CODE

benefit the contributing district or political subdivision. All or
part of any funds contributed by a county, city, water control and
improvement district, drainage district, or other political
subdivision to a conservation district may be used by the
conservation district to match funds received from the state.
(d) For the purposes of this section, a county may expend
permanent improvement funds or flood control funds levied in
accordance with Article VIII, Section 1-a, of the Texas Constitution
and Chapter 464, Acts of the 51st Legislature, Regular Session, 1949
(Article 7048a, Vernon's Texas Civil Statutes). A political
subdivision other than a county may expend the appropriate funds of
the subdivision for the purposes of this section.
Acts 1981, 67th Leg., p. 1480, ch. 388, Sec. 1, eff. Sept. 1, 1981.
Amended by Acts 1995, 74th Leg., ch. 198, Sec. 1, eff. Sept. 1, 1995.

SUBCHAPTER H. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROGRAM FOR SOIL AND WATER
CONSERVATION LAND IMPROVEMENT MEASURES
