Sec. 41.034. ELECTIONS TO ADD NEW TERRITORY. (a) Producers of
an agricultural commodity in an area not within the jurisdiction of a
board for that commodity may petition the commissioner to authorize a
referendum within an area specified in the petition on the issue of
whether or not the area is to be included within the jurisdiction of
that board. The petition must be submitted to the commissioner at
least 105 days before the date of the election at which the
referendum is to be conducted.
(b) If the commissioner determines that in the area described
there exists among the producers of the commodity an interest in
becoming subject to the jurisdiction of the board that is substantial
enough to justify a referendum, the commissioner may transmit the
petition to the board with an order authorizing the board in its
discretion to conduct the election at its own expense. The petition
and order must be transmitted to the board at least 75 days before
the date of the election.
(c) The referendum shall be held on the date of the biennial
election of board members. The board shall give public notice of:
(1) the date of the election;
(2) the amount and basis of the assessment collected by the
board;
(3) a description of the manner in which the assessment is
Statute text rendered on: 8/6/2022

- 177 -

AGRICULTURE CODE

collected and the proceeds administered and used; and
(4) any other proposition the board proposes to include on
the ballot as authorized or required by this chapter.
(d) The notice under Subsection (c) of this section shall be
published in one or more newspapers published and distributed, or
generally circulated, within the boundaries described in the
petition. The notice shall be published at least once a week for
three consecutive weeks, beginning at least 60 days before the date
of the election. In addition, at least 60 days before the date of
the election the board shall give direct written notice to each
county agent in any county within the described boundaries.
(e) A person is qualified to vote in the referendum if he or
she is or, for at least one production period during the three years
preceding the date of the referendum, has been a producer of the
commodity whose production occurs within the area described in the
petition.
(f) A producer who is qualified to vote in the referendum is
eligible to be a member of or a candidate for membership on the
board. If the board is elected from districts, a producer within the
described boundaries may be a candidate only for at-large positions
on the board, if any. In order to qualify as a candidate, the
producer must comply with Section 41.025 of this code, except that
the application shall be filed with the board and may not be filed
before the first publication of notice under Subsection (d) of this
section.
(g) In the area described in the petition, the ballot shall be
prepared and distributed and the election shall be conducted in
accordance with the rules of the commissioner under Section 41.022 of
this code.
(h) Except as otherwise provided in this subsection, voters
qualified to vote in the referendum are entitled to vote for
candidates for membership on the board and for any other proposition
printed on the ballot for the regular election. If board members are
elected from districts, voters in the area described in the petition
may vote only for at-large positions, if any.
(i) The ballots cast in the area described in the petition
shall be canvassed, and the returns reported, separately from the
ballots cast in other areas. On those returns, the board shall
perform the functions of the commissioner described in Section 41.030
of this code, except that the board shall certify whether the
Statute text rendered on: 8/6/2022

- 178 -

AGRICULTURE CODE

referendum proposition carried or was defeated in the area described
in the petition. If the referendum proposition is defeated, the
ballots cast in the area described in the petition may not be counted
for any other purpose. If the proposition carries, the returns shall
be included in determining the election of board members and the
outcome of other propositions. The area described in the petition
becomes subject to the jurisdiction of the board on the day following
the date that the result is certified.
Acts 1981, 67th Leg., p. 1085, ch. 388, Sec. 1, eff. Sept. 1, 1981.

SUBCHAPTER D. ORGANIZATION, POWERS, AND DUTIES OF BOARDS
