Sec. 13.007. CIVIL PENALTY; INJUNCTION. (a) A person who
violates Subchapter B or C or a rule adopted under Subchapter B or C
is liable to the state for a civil penalty not to exceed $500 for
each violation. Each day a violation continues may be considered a
separate violation for purposes of a civil penalty assessment.
(b) On request of the department, the attorney general or the
county attorney or district attorney of the county in which the
violation is alleged to have occurred shall file suit to collect the
penalty.
(c) A civil penalty collected under this section shall be
deposited in the state treasury to the credit of the General Revenue
Fund. All civil penalties recovered in suits first instituted by a
local government or governments under this section shall be equally
divided between the State of Texas and the local government or
governments with 50 percent of the recovery to be paid to the General
Revenue Fund and the other 50 percent equally to the local government
or governments first instituting the suit.
(d) The department is entitled to appropriate injunctive relief
to prevent or abate a violation of this chapter or a rule adopted
Statute text rendered on: 8/6/2022

- 64 -

AGRICULTURE CODE

under this chapter. On request of the department, the attorney
general or the county or district attorney of the county in which the
alleged violation is threatened or is occurring shall file suit for
the injunctive relief. Venue is in the county in which the alleged
violation is threatened or is occurring.
(e) The department and the attorney general may each recover
reasonable expenses incurred in obtaining injunctive relief and civil
penalties under this section, including investigative costs, court
costs, reasonable attorney's fees, witness fees, and deposition
expenses. The expenses recovered by the department may be
appropriated only to the department for the administration and
enforcement of this chapter. The expenses recovered by the attorney
general may be appropriated only to the attorney general.
Added by Acts 1989, 71st Leg., ch. 230, Sec. 19, eff. Sept. 1, 1989.
Amended by:
Acts 2013, 83rd Leg., R.S., Ch. 924 (H.B. 1494), Sec. 3.02, eff.
September 1, 2013.

SUBCHAPTER B. STANDARD WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
