Sec. 18.0075. ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURES. (a) To the extent
consistent with the requirements of the national organic program, the
department by rule shall adopt administrative procedures relating to
assessment of administrative penalties and other sanctions for
violations of this subchapter. Chapter 2001, Government Code, does
not apply to department rules adopted under this subchapter to the
extent that Chapter 2001, Government Code, conflicts with the
requirements of the national organic program.
(b) The department shall provide a person with written notice
of the department's intent to assess the person with an
administrative penalty or other sanction. If the department requires
a written response to the notice, the department shall allow the
person not less than 10 days after the date the person receives the
notice to provide the department with the written response. A
written response may contain an admission of a violation of this
subchapter or rule adopted under this subchapter, as applicable, and
an agreement to assessment of the applicable administrative penalty
or sanction.
(c) The department's administrative procedures may provide for
a default judgment without a hearing for failure to submit to the
department a written response under Subsection (b) that contains a
request for a hearing and a general or specific denial that the
department's action is warranted by the facts or law.
(d) A default judgment may be entered under this section by
order of the commissioner. The order entering a default judgment is
final on the day the commissioner issues the order.
Statute text rendered on: 8/6/2022

- 151 -

AGRICULTURE CODE

(e) A default judgment may be appealed for review de novo to a
Travis County district court not later than the first anniversary of
the date the order is issued under Subsection (d).
(f) On appeal, the court may only consider the issues of
whether the appellant received proper notice as required by
Subsection (b) and whether the department received a proper response
under Subsection (b). The appellant has the burden of proof to
establish, by a preponderance of the evidence, that proper notice was
not received by the appellant or that a proper response under
Subsection (b) was received by the department. If the appellant
prevails, the default judgment shall be vacated and the case shall be
remanded to the department for an administrative hearing on the
substantive issues raised by the department's notice.
(g) The State Office of Administrative Hearings shall conduct
any hearing required by a rule of the department adopted under this
subchapter.
(h) In the absence of administrative procedures adopted by the
department under this section, the procedures under Chapter 12 and
under Chapter 2001, Government Code, apply to the assessment of
administrative penalties or license sanctions, except that the
procedures may, on motion of a party or on the administrative law
judge's own motion, be modified by the judge as necessary to comply
with standards and procedures under the national organic program.
Added by Acts 2003, 78th Leg., ch. 1288, Sec. 8, eff. June 21, 2003.

