Sec. 12.027. ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM. (a) The department
shall maintain an economic development program for rural areas in
this state.
(b) In administering the program, the department shall:
(1) promote economic growth in rural areas;
(2) identify potential opportunities for business in rural
areas and assist rural communities in maximizing those opportunities;
(3) work with rural communities to identify economic
development needs and direct those communities to persons who can
Statute text rendered on: 8/6/2022

- 33 -

AGRICULTURE CODE

address and assist in meeting those needs;
(4) encourage communication between organizations,
industries, and regions to improve economic and community development
services to rural areas;
(5) coordinate meetings with public and private entities to
distribute information beneficial to rural areas;
(6) enter into a memorandum of agreement to work
cooperatively with the Texas Economic Development and Tourism Office,
the Texas A&M AgriLife Extension Service, and other entities the
department deems appropriate to further program objectives; and
(7) perform any other functions necessary to carry out the
program.
(c) The department may employ personnel to carry out the
program.
(d) The department by rule may charge a membership fee to a
participant in the program.
(e) The department may adopt rules as necessary to administer
the program, including rules regarding the use of any state or
federally registered trademarks, certification marks, or service
marks of the department.
(f) The department may revoke a participant's certificate of
registration or license issued under the program if the participant
fails to comply with a rule adopted by the department.
(g) In addition to the department's authority under Subsection
(a), the department may request, accept, and use any gift, grant,
loan, donation, aid, appropriation, guaranty, allocation, subsidy, or
contribution of any item of value to further an economic development
program in this state.
Added by Acts 2001, 77th Leg., ch. 15, Sec. 1, eff. Sept. 1, 2001.
Amended by:
Acts 2011, 82nd Leg., R.S., Ch. 69 (S.B. 1086), Sec. 1, eff. May
17, 2011.
Acts 2013, 83rd Leg., R.S., Ch. 1197 (S.B. 1214), Sec. 1, eff.
June 14, 2013.

