Sec. 125.010. CROP SHEET DEVELOPED BY DEPARTMENT. (a) The
department shall develop crop sheets that contain the following
information:
(1) the kinds of chemicals typically used on a particular
crop;
(2) the typical time a chemical is applied to a particular
crop;
(3) general safety information, including information on
general hygiene, clothing, contact with chemicals, medical symptoms,
pregnancy, and other relevant safety data;
(4) a notice of the training programs and the counties in
which the programs will be conducted;
Statute text rendered on: 8/6/2022

- 730 -

AGRICULTURE CODE

(5) the availability of MSDSs for chemicals used on a
particular crop;
(6) the means of locating emergency medical information;
(7) agricultural laborers' rights under this chapter;
(8) the name and telephone number of the person to contact
for information under this chapter;
(9) the appropriate telephone number for emergency
information; and
(10) any other safety or health-related information the
department considers relevant.
(b) The information on the crop sheet must be printed in
English and Spanish, except that the information required by
Subsections (a)(1) and (a)(2) of this section is required to be
printed only in English. The department may provide crop sheets
printed in other languages commonly used by agricultural laborers who
work with a particular crop.
(c) The department shall develop the crop sheets in conjunction
with the Texas Department of Health, the Texas Agricultural Extension
Service, other appropriate state agencies, and clinics, hospitals,
and other health care providers in counties in which training
programs are provided by the department under Section 125.009 of this
code.
(d) Annually, the department shall:
(1) provide appropriate crop sheets to clinics, hospitals,
and other health care providers that serve agricultural laborers and
that are located in counties in which the training program is
provided; and
(2) provide to an employer covered by this chapter one crop
sheet for each crop grown by that employer.
(e) The director of the Texas Feed and Fertilizer Control
Service under Section 63.003 of this code shall provide to the
department the information that is needed by the department under
Subsection (a) of this section for the fertilizers that are covered
by this chapter.
(f) For purposes of developing crop sheets under this chapter
and complying with other provisions of this chapter, nursery stock,
stored grain, and other logical groupings may be considered a single
crop as determined by rules adopted by the department.
Added by Acts 1987, 70th Leg., ch. 903, Sec. 1, eff. Jan. 1, 1988.
Statute text rendered on: 8/6/2022

- 731 -

AGRICULTURE CODE

