Sec. 62.009. SEED AND PLANTS FROM OUTSIDE THE STATE. (a) The
department may adopt rules, including testing requirements and
standards, which must be met before seed or plants represented to be
of a certified class may be shipped into the state for distribution
in the state. The rules adopted shall be designed to ensure buyers
in the state of having available certified seed and plants of known
origin, genetic purity, and identity and shall correspond to
appropriate rules used in certifying seed and plants produced in
Texas.
(b) The department may require inspections of seed and plants
represented to be of a certified class and shipped into the state for
distribution in the state and may collect fees to cover costs of
inspection, as determined by the department. The department may
require inspection fee payment before distribution in the state.
(c) A person may not distribute in this state seed or plants
represented to be of a certified class and shipped into the state for
distribution in the state, unless the person has first complied with
any rules, including testing requirements, adopted by the department
for seed or plants shipped into the state.
(d) A person may not sell or offer for sale in this state seed
or plants represented to be of a certified class and shipped into the
state for distribution in the state, unless the seed or plants have
been certified by an official certifying agency in the state,
province, or country of origin or have been certified by the
department.
(e) Seed or plants shipped into the state for distribution in
the state which are represented to be of a certified class and which
are found by the department after investigation to violate the
requirements of this section are restricted from distribution. In
addition, the department may order the seed or plants in violation
Statute text rendered on: 8/6/2022

- 379 -

AGRICULTURE CODE

confiscated and retained under general supervision of the department.
An owner or consignee of restricted or confiscated seed or plants may
appeal the order by filing an appeal within 10 days of the order.
Appeal is in the county court of the county where the seed or plants
are restricted or were confiscated. The appeal in county court is by
trial de novo. If no appeal is filed as provided in this section or
if after an appeal in county court, the department's action is not
reversed, the department may destroy confiscated seed or plants.
Acts 1981, 67th Leg., p. 1137, ch. 388, Sec. 1, eff. Sept. 1, 1981.

