Sec. 72.043. LIEN. (a) For the purpose of securing the
payment of fees under Section 72.042 of this code, the department has
a lien on all citrus fruit growing or standing on premises declared
by the court to be a public nuisance. The department may enforce the
lien in the manner provided by either Subsection (b) or (c) of this
section.
(b) If no receiver has been appointed, the department may
enforce the lien by selling at public sale to the highest bidder any
fruit subject to the lien. The sale shall be conducted at the
courthouse door. If a receiver has been appointed, the receiver
shall conduct the sale. Proceeds of the sale in excess of the amount
owed to the department shall be paid to the owner of the premises or
to the county treasurer subject to the order of the owner.
(c) The department may fix the lien by filing the lien, a sworn
statement of the indebtedness, and a description of the property
Statute text rendered on: 8/6/2022

- 457 -

AGRICULTURE CODE

subject to the lien with the county clerk of the county in which the
premises are located. The lien must be filed before the 31st day
following the last day of action by the department under Section
72.042(g) of this code. Within 24 months after filing the lien, the
department shall file suit in a court of competent jurisdiction for
collection of the account and foreclosure of the lien. Neither the
department nor any person to whom the account is assigned may be
required to post a cost bond in that suit. The court shall enter
judgment for the debt with interest and costs of suit and foreclosing
the lien on premises as the court determines necessary for defraying
expenses, court costs, and the fees owed.
(d) In an action under Subsection (c) of this section, the
department may file a separate statement and separate suit covering
each necessary action of the department to enforce compliance or may
wait until a number accrue and file one statement and one suit
covering all necessary actions.
(e) A peace officer authorized by law to serve in the area in
which the lien is enforced may perform the functions of the
department under this section.
Acts 1981, 67th Leg., p. 1169, ch. 388, Sec. 1, eff. Sept. 1, 1981.

