Sec. 58.052. AGRICULTURAL LOAN GUARANTEE PROGRAM. (a) The
board shall administer a loan guarantee program that benefits
eligible applicants who desire to establish or enhance a farming or
ranching operation or an agriculture-related business.
(b) The board, either directly or through authority delegated
to the commissioner, may grant to an eligible applicant a guarantee
Statute text rendered on: 8/6/2022

- 311 -

AGRICULTURE CODE

of a loan made by a commercial lender for the purposes prescribed by
this subchapter. The board by rule shall establish tiered loan
guarantee limits. To be eligible to be guaranteed under this
subchapter, a loan with a term of more than one year must have a
fixed interest rate.
(c) The amount that may be used to guarantee loans under this
subchapter may not exceed three times the amount contained in the
Texas agricultural fund.
(d) A loan guarantee recipient may use proceeds from the loan
for working capital for operating a farm or ranch, including the
lease of facilities and the purchase of machinery and equipment, or
for any agriculture-related business purpose, including the purchase
of real estate, as identified in the plan. A loan guarantee is
voidable by the board if the recipient uses loan proceeds for any
purposes other than those identified in the plan. The board shall
include this restriction as a condition in each loan guarantee
instrument executed under this subchapter.
(e) The board shall adopt an agreement, to be used between a
commercial lender and an approved eligible applicant, under which the
program provides a payment from money in the Texas agricultural fund
for the purpose of providing a reduced interest rate on a loan
guaranteed to a borrower under this subchapter. The board shall
adopt rules to implement this subsection. The maximum rate reduction
under this subsection per year for each borrower may not exceed three
percentage points or an amount that results in $10,000 in interest
savings for the borrower for the year.
(f) The board by rule shall establish a certified lender
program under which the board may certify commercial lenders to
participate in the agricultural loan guarantee program in order to
expedite the processing of loan guarantee applications by the board.
Added by Acts 1999, 76th Leg., ch. 1459,
Amended by:
Acts 2009, 81st Leg., R.S., Ch. 506
September 1, 2009.
Acts 2009, 81st Leg., R.S., Ch. 506
September 1, 2009.
Acts 2015, 84th Leg., R.S., Ch. 868
September 1, 2015.

Statute text rendered on: 8/6/2022

- 312 -

