Sec. 59.016. INVESTMENTS. (a) The authority shall give timely
instruction to the board of the dates on which principal on bonds
matures and interest becomes payable. The board shall administer the
fund accordingly.
(b) Money in the fund that is not immediately committed to
paying principal of and interest on the bonds or to paying expenses
Statute text rendered on: 8/6/2022

- 321 -

AGRICULTURE CODE

as provided by Section 59.015 of this code may be invested by the
board in:
(1) a direct security repurchase agreement or reverse
security repurchase agreement made with a state or national bank
domiciled in this state or with a primary dealer approved by the
federal reserve system;
(2) a direct obligation of or obligation the principal and
interest of which are guaranteed by the United States government;
(3) a direct obligation of or obligation guaranteed by the
Federal Home Loan Banks, the Federal National Mortgage Association,
the Federal Farm Credit System, the Student Loan Marketing
Association, the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation, or a
successor to one of those organizations;
(4) a bankers' acceptance that:
(A) is eligible for purchase by a member of the federal
reserve system;
(B) matures in 270 days or less; and
(C) is issued by a bank that has received the highest
short-term credit rating by a nationally recognized investment rating
firm;
(5) commercial paper that:
(A) matures in 270 days or less; and
(B) has received the highest short-term credit rating
by a nationally recognized investment rating firm;
(6) a contract that is written by the board in which the
board grants the purchaser the right to purchase securities in the
board's marketable securities portfolio at a specified price over a
specified period and for which the board is paid a fee and that
specifically prohibits naked-option or uncovered option trading;
(7) an obligation of a state or of an agency, county, city,
or other political subdivision of a state or a mutual fund composed
of those obligations;
(8) an investment instrument, obligation, or other evidence
of indebtedness the payment of which is directly or indirectly
guaranteed by the full faith and credit of the United States
government;
(9) an investment, account, depository receipt, or deposit
that is fully:
(A) insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance
Corporation or a successor to that organization; or
Statute text rendered on: 8/6/2022

- 322 -

AGRICULTURE CODE

(B) secured by a security described by Subdivision (2),
(3), or (8) of this subsection;
(10) a collateralized mortgage obligation fully secured by
securities or mortgages issued or guaranteed by the Government
National Mortgage Association (GNMA) or any entity identified by
Subdivision (3) of this subsection;
(11) a security or evidence of indebtedness issued by the
Farm Credit System Financial Assistance Corporation, the Private
Export Funding Corporation, or the Export-Import Bank; and
(12) any other investment authorized for investment of
state funds by the comptroller under Section 404.024, Government
Code.
(c) In this section:
(1) "Direct security repurchase agreement" means an
agreement under which the board buys, holds for a specified time, and
then sells back any of the following securities, obligations, or
participation certificates:
(A) a United States government security;
(B) a direct obligation of or an obligation the
principal and interest of which are guaranteed by the United States
government;
(C) a direct obligation of or an obligation guaranteed
by the Federal Home Loan Banks, the Federal National Mortgage
Association, the Federal Farm Credit System, the Student Loan
Marketing Association, the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation, or
a successor to one of those organizations; or
(D) any other investment instrument, obligation, or
other evidence of indebtedness the payment of which is directly or
indirectly guaranteed by the full faith and credit of the United
States government.
(2) "Market value" means the fair and reasonable prevailing
price at which a security is being sold on the open market at the
time of the appraisement of the security by the board.
(3) "Reverse security repurchase agreement" means an
agreement under which the board sells and after a specified time buys
back any of the securities, obligations, or participation
certificates listed by Subdivision (1) of this subsection.
Added by Acts 1993, 73rd Leg., ch. 542, Sec. 1, eff. Sept. 1, 1993.
Amended by Acts 1995, 74th Leg., ch. 265, Sec. 3, eff. Aug. 28, 1995;
Statute text rendered on: 8/6/2022

- 323 -

AGRICULTURE CODE

Acts 1997, 75th Leg., ch. 1423, Sec. 2.09, eff. Sept. 1, 1997.

Text of section as amended by Acts 1995, 74th Leg., ch. 1014, Sec. 10
