Sec. 12.0271. RURAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT AND INVESTMENT
PROGRAM. (a) From funds appropriated for that purpose, the
commissioner shall establish and administer a financial assistance
Statute text rendered on: 8/6/2022

- 34 -

AGRICULTURE CODE

program to encourage private economic development in rural areas.
Financial assistance under the program may be provided only to:
(1) a county with a population of not more than 75,000;
(2) a municipality with a population of not more than
50,000; or
(3) an economic development corporation or community
development financial institution that primarily represents a county
or municipality described by this subsection.
(b) Financial assistance under Subsection (a) may be used only
for a project relating to:
(1) the acquisition or development of land, easements, or
rights-of-way;
(2) attracting new private enterprises to the county or
municipality, including:
(A) manufacturing facilities;
(B) freight storage facilities;
(C) distribution warehouse centers; and
(D) other nonretail private enterprises;
(3) the construction, extension, or other improvement of:
(A) water or waste disposal facilities; or
(B) transportation infrastructure; or
(4) any other activity relating to private economic
development that the commissioner determines will encourage economic
and infrastructure development in a rural area.
(c) To further a purpose described by Subsection (b), the
commissioner may provide financial assistance to an eligible county,
municipality, community development financial institution, or
economic development corporation by:
(1) extending credit by direct loan, based on the credit of
the county, municipality, community development financial
institution, or economic development corporation;
(2) providing a credit enhancement;
(3) effectively lowering interest rates;
(4) financing a purchase or lease agreement in connection
with an economic or infrastructure development project; or
(5) providing methods of leveraging money from sources
other than this state that are related to the project for which the
assistance is provided.
(d) A county, municipality, community development financial
institution, or economic development corporation that receives funds
Statute text rendered on: 8/6/2022

- 35 -

AGRICULTURE CODE

under Subsection (c) shall segregate the funds from other funds under
the control of the county, municipality, or economic development
corporation and use the funds only for a purpose described by this
section. Any funds disbursed through the program must be repaid on
terms determined by the department.
(e) The department shall adopt rules necessary to implement
this section.
Added by Acts 2009, 81st Leg., R.S., Ch. 506 (S.B. 1016), Sec. 8.04,
eff. September 1, 2009.

