Sec. 52.013. GENERAL POWERS. A marketing association may:
(1) engage in any activity connected with:
(A) the production, cultivation, and care of citrus
groves;
(B) the marketing, selling, harvesting, preserving,
drying, processing, canning, packing, storing, handling, or use of
any agricultural products produced or delivered to it by its members;
(C) the production, manufacturing, or marketing of the
by-products of those agricultural products;
(D) the purchase, hiring, or use by its members of
supplies, machinery, or equipment; and
(E) the financing of an activity enumerated by
Paragraphs (A) through (D) of this subdivision;
Statute text rendered on: 8/6/2022

- 257 -

AGRICULTURE CODE

(2) borrow money and make advances to its members;
(3) act as an agent or representative of any member in an
activity authorized by Subdivision (1) or (2) of this section;
(4) acquire, hold, own, exercise all rights of ownership
in, sell, transfer, or pledge shares of capital stocks or bonds of a
corporation or association, including a bank for cooperatives
organized under the Farm Credit Act of 1933, engaged in an activity
related to that of the association incorporated under this chapter or
engaged in the handling or marketing of a product handled by the
association;
(5) establish reserves and invest the money in those
reserves in bonds or other property as provided by the association's
bylaws;
(6) buy, hold, and exercise all privileges of ownership
over real or personal property that is determined by the association
to be necessary or convenient for, or incidental to, conducting and
operating its business;
(7) perform, in or outside this state, acts that are
necessary, suitable, or proper to accomplish the purposes and
objectives permitted by this section or that are conducive to or
expedient for the interest or benefit of the association, and may
contract for the performance of those acts;
(8) possess and exercise, in or outside this state, all
powers, rights, and privileges necessary for or incidental to the
purposes for which the association is organized or the activities in
which it is engaged;
(9) exercise the rights, powers, and privileges that are
granted by the laws of the state to general corporations and that are
not inconsistent with this chapter; and
(10) deliver money to a scholarship fund for rural
students.
Acts 1981, 67th Leg., p. 1104, ch. 388, Sec. 1, eff. Sept. 1, 1981.
Amended by Acts 1997, 75th Leg., ch. 904, Sec. 3, eff. Sept. 1, 1997.

