Sec. 14.052. WAREHOUSE OPERATOR OBLIGATIONS. (a) The
obligations of a warehouse operator include the obligation to:
(1) deliver grain to a person holding a receipt for grain
stored in the warehouse; and
(2) maintain the quantity and quality of all grain not
owned by the warehouse operator, including open storage grain.
(b) Except as otherwise provided by this chapter or by
department rule, the obligation of a warehouse operator to deliver
grain to a person holding a receipt for grain stored in the public
grain warehouse is controlled by Section 7.403, Business & Commerce
Code.
(c) If a warehouse operator accepts for storage, shipping,
handling, purchase, or sale any grain that is nonfungible or for
which identity must be preserved, the warehouse operator shall
safeguard the grain from intermingling with grain that would impair
or destroy the identity-preserved or nonfungible nature of the grain.
Nothing in this section requires the warehouse operator to accept
grain that is nonfungible or that requires identity preservation.
(d) The warehouse operator remains liable for the quality and
quantity of grain deposited at the warehouse and for any other
Statute text rendered on: 8/6/2022

- 113 -

AGRICULTURE CODE

obligations established under this chapter for any period during
which the warehouse has been sealed or during any period of
probation, suspension, or revocation imposed under this chapter or
for grain abandoned by the warehouse operator unless:
(1) the warehouse operator makes a written request to the
department for access to the warehouse;
(2) the request adequately describes why access is
necessary to meet the warehouse operator's obligations under this
chapter;
(3) the request adequately describes what type of access is
necessary to meet the warehouse operator's obligations under this
chapter;
(4) the request for access is reasonable;
(5) allowing access would not impair the department's
ability to preserve evidence, warehouse operator records, or
depositor grain assets; and
(6) the request is denied by the department or the
department imposes unreasonable restrictions that prevent the
operator from meeting the obligations described in the request.
(e) The department is entitled, on behalf of depositors, to
recover from the warehouse operator's bond the cost of damages
suffered by depositors as a result of sealing the warehouse or as a
result of the warehouse operator abandoning the warehouse and the
grain contained in the warehouse.
Acts 1981, 67th
Acts 1993, 73rd
Renumbered from
Leg., ch. 1124,

Leg., p. 1052, ch. 388, Sec. 1, eff. Sept. 1, 1981;
Leg., ch. 553, Sec. 2, eff. Sept. 1, 1993.
