Sec. 161.148. ADMINISTRATIVE PENALTY. (a) The commission may
impose an administrative penalty on a person who violates this
subtitle or a rule or order adopted under this subtitle.
(b) The penalty for a violation may be in an amount not to
exceed $5,000. Each day a violation continues or occurs is a
separate violation for purposes of imposing a penalty. The amount of
the penalty shall not be based on a per head basis.
(c) The amount of the penalty shall be based on:
(1) the seriousness of the violation, including the nature,
circumstances, extent, and gravity of any prohibited acts, and the
hazard or potential hazard created to the health, safety, or economic
welfare of the public;
(2) the economic harm to property or the environment caused
by the violation;
(3) the history of previous violations;
(4) the amount necessary to deter future violations;
(5) efforts to correct the violation; and
(6) any other matter that justice may require.
(d) An executive director who determines that a violation has
occurred may issue to the commission a report that states the facts
on which the determination is based and the director's recommendation
on the imposition of a penalty, including a recommendation on the
amount of the penalty.
(e) Within 14 days after the date the report is issued, the
executive director shall give written notice of the report to the
person. The notice may be given by certified mail. The notice must
include a brief summary of the alleged violation and a statement of
the amount of the recommended penalty and must inform the person that
the person has a right to a hearing on the occurrence of the
violation, the amount of the penalty, or both the occurrence of the
violation and the amount of the penalty.
Statute text rendered on: 8/6/2022

- 918 -

AGRICULTURE CODE

(f) Within 20 days after the date the person receives the
notice, the person in writing may accept the determination and
recommended penalty of the executive director or may make a written
request for a hearing on the occurrence of the violation, the amount
of the penalty, or both the occurrence of the violation and the
amount of the penalty.
(g) If the person accepts the determination and recommended
penalty of the executive director, the commission by order shall
approve the determination and impose the recommended penalty.
(h) If the person requests a hearing or fails to respond timely
to the notice, the executive director shall set a hearing and give
notice of the hearing to the person. The hearing shall be held by an
administrative law judge of the State Office of Administrative
Hearings. The administrative law judge shall make findings of fact
and conclusions of law and promptly issue to the commission a
proposal for a decision about the occurrence of the violation and the
amount of a proposed penalty. Based on the findings of fact,
conclusions of law, and proposal for a decision, the commission by
order may find that a violation has occurred and impose a penalty or
may find that no violation occurred.
(i) The notice of the commission's order given to the person
under Chapter 2001, Government Code, must include a statement of the
right of the person to judicial review of the order.
(j) Within 30 days after the date the commission's order
becomes final as provided by Section 2001.144, Government Code, the
person shall:
(1) pay the amount of the penalty;
(2) pay the amount of the penalty and file a petition for
judicial review contesting the occurrence of the violation, the
amount of the penalty, or both the occurrence of the violation and
the amount of the penalty; or
(3) without paying the amount of the penalty, file a
petition for judicial review contesting the occurrence of the
violation, the amount of the penalty, or both the occurrence of the
violation and the amount of the penalty.
(k) Within the 30-day period, a person who acts under
Subsection (j)(3) of this section may:
(1) stay enforcement of the penalty by:
(A) paying the amount of the penalty to the court for
placement in an escrow account; or
Statute text rendered on: 8/6/2022

- 919 -

AGRICULTURE CODE

(B) giving to the court a supersedeas bond that is
approved by the court for the amount of the penalty and that is
effective until all judicial review of the board's order is final;
or
(2) request the court to stay enforcement of the penalty
by:
(A) filing with the court a sworn affidavit of the
person stating that the person is financially unable to pay the
amount of the penalty and is financially unable to give the
supersedeas bond; and
(B) giving a copy of the affidavit to the executive
director by certified mail.
(l) An executive director who receives a copy of an affidavit
under Subsection (k)(2) of this section may file with the court,
within five days after the date the copy is received, a contest to
the affidavit. The court shall hold a hearing on the facts alleged
in the affidavit as soon as practicable and shall stay the
enforcement of the penalty on finding that the alleged facts are
true. The person who files an affidavit has the burden of proving
that the person is financially unable to pay the amount of the
penalty and to give a supersedeas bond.
(m) If the person does not pay the amount of the penalty and
the enforcement of the penalty is not stayed, the executive director
may refer the matter to the attorney general for collection of the
amount of the penalty.
(n) Judicial review of the order of the commission:
(1) is instituted by filing a petition as provided by
Subchapter G, Chapter 2001, Government Code; and
(2) is under the substantial evidence rule.
(o) If the court sustains the occurrence of the violation, the
court may uphold or reduce the amount of the penalty and order the
person to pay the full or reduced amount of the penalty. If the
court does not sustain the occurrence of the violation, the court
shall order that no penalty is owed.
(p) When the judgment of the court becomes final, the court
shall proceed under this subsection. If the person paid the amount
of the penalty and if that amount is reduced or is not upheld by the
court, the court shall order that the appropriate amount plus accrued
interest be remitted to the person. The rate of the interest is the
rate charged on loans to depository institutions by the New York
Statute text rendered on: 8/6/2022

- 920 -

AGRICULTURE CODE

Federal Reserve Bank, and the interest shall be paid for the period
beginning on the date the penalty was paid and ending on the date the
penalty is remitted. If the person gave a supersedeas bond and if
the amount of the penalty is not upheld by the court, the court shall
order the release of the bond. If the person gave a supersedeas bond
and if the amount of the penalty is reduced, the court shall order
the release of the bond after the person pays the amount.
(q) A penalty collected under this section shall be remitted to
the comptroller for deposit in the general revenue fund.
(r) All proceedings under this section are subject to Chapter
2001, Government Code.
Added by Acts 1995, 74th Leg., ch. 554, Sec. 28, eff. Sept. 1, 1995.
Amended by:
Acts 2021, 87th Leg., R.S., Ch. 213 (H.B. 3856), Sec. 1, eff.
September 1, 2021.

