Sec. 13.032. STANDARD FILL AND QUANTITY LABELING FOR
COMMODITIES IN PACKAGE FORM. (a) For the purpose of preventing the
sale of commodities in package form with containers that mislead the
purchaser as to quantity, the department by rule may establish a
standard fill for commodities in package form. The rules must be
reasonable with respect to the physical characteristics of the
container, the prevailing method of handling and transporting the
package, and generally accepted good commercial practice in filling
methods. The rules shall provide for reasonable variations and
tolerances.
(b) Except as otherwise provided by this section, a commodity
in package form shall be plainly and conspicuously marked on the
outside of the package with:
(1) the net quantity of the contents in terms of weight,
measure, numerical count, or a combination thereof, which is
generally used by consumers and users to express the quantity of such
commodity; and
(2) the name and place of business of the manufacturer,
packer, or distributor.
(c) The department by rule shall provide exemptions from the
requirements of Subsection (b)(1) of this section for small packages
and from the requirements of Subsection (b)(2) of this section for
Statute text rendered on: 8/6/2022

- 70 -

AGRICULTURE CODE

packages sold on the premises where packed.
(d) The department by rule shall prescribe reasonable
variations or tolerances for the statement of net quantity required
under Subsection (b)(1) of this section.
(e) A box or carton used for shipping purposes containing a
number of packages that are individually marked in accordance with
Subsection (b) of this section is not required to be marked in
accordance with that subsection.
(f) A commodity is in package form if for wholesale or retail
it:
(1) is in a package, carton, case, can, box, bag, barrel,
bottle, or phial, on a spool or similar holder, in a container or
band, in a roll, ball, coil, skein, or other receptacle, or in
coverings or wrappings of any kind;
(2) is put up by the manufacturer or, if put up prior to
ordering, by the vendor;
(3) is suitable for labeling, branding, stenciling, or
marking in another manner; and
(4) makes one complete package.
(g) This section does not apply to bales of cotton, commodities
in package form of which the manner of sale is regulated by other
law, or to stationery in tablet form.
(h) A person commits an offense if the person sells, keeps for
sale, or offers or exposes for sale a commodity in package form that
is:
(1) not labeled in accordance with this section;
(2) in a container that is made, formed, filled, or wrapped
so as to mislead the purchaser as to the quantity of the contents;
or
(3) in a container the contents of which fall below the
standard fill prescribed by rule under Subsection (a) of this
section.
Acts 1981, 67th Leg., p. 1026, ch. 388, Sec. 1, eff. Sept. 1, 1981.
Amended by Acts 1985, 69th Leg., ch. 276, Sec. 1, eff. Aug. 26, 1985.

