Sec. 74.1021. STATUTORY ZONES. (a) The Northern High Plains
Eradication Zone consists of Armstrong, Bailey, Briscoe, Castro, Deaf
Smith, Floyd, Hale, Lamb, Parmer, Randall, and Swisher counties, and
other areas as proposed by the commissioner by rule for inclusion in
the zone and approved by referendum in the area to be added.
(b) The Rolling Plains Central Eradication Zone consists of
Baylor, Callahan, Comanche, Eastland, Erath, Fisher, Haskell, Jones,
Knox, Mitchell, Nolan, Palo Pinto, Scurry, Shackelford, Stephens,
Stonewall, Throckmorton, and Young counties; all land in Archer
County south of a line following Farm-to-Market Road 422 commencing
at the Baylor County line running east to the intersection of Farmto-Market Road 210, continuing east to the intersection of State
Highway 25, and continuing east to the Clay County line; all land in
Borden County east of a line seven miles west of the Scurry County
line running south from the Garza County line to the Howard County
line; and all land in Taylor County east of U.S. Highway 83 from a
point commencing at the intersection of U.S. Highway 83 and the south
Taylor County line, north to the town of Bradshaw; thence north of
Farm-to-Market Road 1086, as the farm-to-market road proceeds west
and north to the intersection of the Farm-to-Market Road 1086 and
U.S. Highway 277, being all land lying north of the farm-to-market
road and west of U.S. Highway 277 from the intersection of Farm-toMarket Road 1086 and U.S. Highway 277 to the point where U.S. Highway
277 intersects the south boundary line of Taylor County; all land in
Brown County east of a line following State Highway 279 to Brownwood
and continuing along U.S. Highway 377 south to the McCulloch County
line; and other areas as proposed by the commissioner by rule for
inclusion in the zone and approved by referendum in the area to be
added.
(c) The St. Lawrence Eradication Zone consists of that area of
Midland County south of a line 15 miles south of Interstate 20
running from the Ector County line east to the Glasscock County line;
Statute text rendered on: 8/6/2022

- 477 -

AGRICULTURE CODE

Glasscock, Reagan, and Upton counties; and other areas as proposed
by the commissioner by rule for inclusion in the zone and approved by
referendum in the area to be added.
(d) The South Texas Winter Garden Eradication Zone consists of
Aransas, Atascosa, Austin, Bee, Bexar, Brazoria, Calhoun, Colorado,
DeWitt, Dimmit, Duval, Fort Bend, Frio, Goliad, Jackson, Jim Wells,
Karnes, Kinney, Kleberg, La Salle, Lavaca, Live Oak, Matagorda,
McMullen, Medina, Nueces, Refugio, San Patricio, Uvalde, Victoria,
Wharton, Wilson, and Zavala counties, and other areas as proposed by
the commissioner by rule for inclusion in the zone and approved by
referendum in the area to be added. Austin, Brazoria, Colorado, Fort
Bend, Jackson, Matagorda, and Wharton counties are included in the
South Texas Winter Garden Eradication Zone only for purposes of the
repayment of debt existing on April 30, 1997, and those counties may
not be included in the zone for any other purpose unless the
commissioner by rule proposes that an area be included in the zone
and the proposal is approved by referendum in the area to be added.
The commissioner may apportion any debt existing on April 30, 1997,
and designate the appropriate assessment.
(e) The Southern High Plains-Caprock Eradication Zone consists
of Andrews, Cochran, Crosby, Dawson, Dickens, Ector, Gaines, Garza,
Hockley, Howard, Kent, Lubbock, Lynn, Martin, Motley, Terry, and
Yoakum counties; all land in Borden County lying west of a line
seven miles west of the Scurry County line running south from the
Garza County line to the Howard County line; that area of Midland
County north of a line 15 miles south of Interstate 20 running from
the Ector County line east to the Glasscock County line; and other
areas as proposed by the commissioner by rule for inclusion in the
zone and approved by referendum in the area to be added.
(f) The Southern Rolling Plains Eradication Zone consists of
Coke, Coleman, Concho, Irion, McCulloch, Runnels, Schleicher, and Tom
Green counties, all land in Taylor County lying west of U.S. Highway
83 from a point commencing at the intersection of U.S. Highway 83 and
the south Taylor County line, north of the town of Bradshaw; thence
all the land lying south of Farm-to-Market Road 1086, as the farm-tomarket road proceeds west and north to its intersection with U.S.
Highway 277, being all land lying south of the farm-to-market road
and east of U.S. Highway 277 from the intersection of Farm-to-Market
Road 1086 and U.S. Highway 277 to the point where U.S. Highway 277
intersects the south boundary line of Taylor County, and other areas
Statute text rendered on: 8/6/2022

- 478 -

AGRICULTURE CODE

as proposed by the commissioner by rule for inclusion in the zone and
approved by referendum in the area to be added.
Added by Acts 1997, 75th Leg., ch. 463, Sec. 1.04, eff. May 30, 1997.

