Sec. 80.001. FINDINGS AND DECLARATION OF POLICY. (a) The
legislature finds that:
(1) citrus pests and diseases, including the insect known
as the Asian citrus psyllid and the disease known as citrus greening,
are public nuisances and menaces to the citrus industry, and their
control and suppression is a public necessity;
(2) because of the natural migration patterns of citrus
pests and the contagious nature of citrus diseases, the control and
suppression of the nuisance can best be accomplished by dividing the
commercial citrus-growing areas into separate zones so that
integrated pest management programs may be developed for each zone;
(3) there is a need for a quasi-governmental entity acting
under the supervision and control of the commissioner whose members
are actual citrus producers who would be represented on the board of
the entity by directors elected by them to manage control and
suppression programs and to furnish expertise in the field of disease
and insect control and suppression, because such an entity would
enhance the interest and participation of citrus producers in the
program;
(4) citrus producers, in partnership with the state and
federal governments, have made significant investments toward the
suppression of these pests and disease in this state; and
(5) it is essential to the well-being of the citrus
industry and the agricultural economy of this state that the
investments of the citrus producers and the state and federal
governments be protected.
(b) It is the intent of the legislature that the program of
control and suppression of citrus pests and diseases be carried out
with the best available integrated pest management techniques.
(c) The department may recover costs for administration of this
chapter.
Added by Acts 2009, 81st Leg., R.S., Ch. 506 (S.B. 1016), Sec. 10.01,
eff. September 1, 2009.
Amended by:
Acts 2015, 84th Leg., R.S., Ch. 29 (S.B. 1749), Sec. 1, eff.
September 1, 2015.

Statute text rendered on: 8/6/2022

- 589 -

AGRICULTURE CODE

