Sec. 201.101. CORPORATE POWERS. (a) A conservation district
is a governmental subdivision of this state and a public body
corporate and politic. A conservation district may:
(1) sue and be sued in the name of the conservation
district;
(2) have a seal, which shall be judicially noticed;
(3) make and execute contracts and other instruments
necessary or convenient to the exercise of its powers; and
(4) adopt rules consistent with this chapter to carry into
effect its purposes and powers.
(b) A conservation district may execute notes on the faith and
credit of the conservation district for the purpose of making
repairs, additions, or improvements to any property or equipment
owned by the conservation district. The notes may be issued payable
from current funds or reasonably contemplated revenues, but the
conservation district may not issue notes payable from funds derived
from the state.
(c) Any note issued by a conservation district may be secured
by a lien on the property or equipment to which the repairs,
additions, or improvements are to be made if the property or
equipment was not acquired from the state or with funds derived from
the state. A note executed in connection with the purchase of real
property may be secured only by the purchased real property.
(d) A conservation district may not levy taxes.
(e) Debts incurred by a conservation district may not create a
lien on the land of owners or occupiers of land in the district.
(f) As a condition to extending benefits to, or performing any
work on, land in the conservation district not owned or controlled by
Statute text rendered on: 8/6/2022

- 1045 -

AGRICULTURE CODE

the state or a state agency, a conservation district
(1) require contributions to the operation
materials, or another form; and
(2) require owners or occupiers of land to
perform an agreement or covenant as to the permanent
will tend to prevent or control soil erosion on that

may:
in services,
enter into and
use of land that
land.

Acts 1981, 67th Leg., p. 1472, ch. 388, Sec. 1, eff. Sept. 1, 1981.
Amended by Acts 1989, 71st Leg., ch. 46, Sec. 1, eff. April 27, 1989.

