Sec. 74.115. PAYMENT OF ASSESSMENTS; ASSESSMENT LIENS. (a) A
cotton grower who fails to pay an assessment levied under this
subchapter when due may be subject, after reasonable notice and
opportunity for hearing, to a penalty set by the commissioner. In
determining the amount of the penalty to be assessed, the
commissioner shall consider:
(1) the seriousness of the violation, including the nature,
circumstances, and extent of the violation;
(2) the history of previous violations;
(3) the amount necessary to deter future violations;
(4) the economic situation of the cotton grower; and
(5) any other matter that justice may require.
(b) The foundation may develop a compliance certificate program
to manage the payment and collection of an assessment levied under
this subchapter. Under the program the foundation, subject to
department rules, may issue a compliance certificate for cotton for
which an assessment has been paid.
(c) In addition to any other remedies for the collection of
assessments and penalties, the commissioner may adopt rules relating
to the compliance certificate program for eradication assessments.
The rules may include:
(1) provisions establishing and relating to the obligations
of growers, ginners, and buyers in due course of cotton produced in
active eradication zones to ensure that assessments are paid within a
prescribed time period;
(2) provisions allowing incentives in the form of
discounted assessments for growers who pay assessments within a
prescribed time period;
(3) provisions establishing penalties and interest against
growers who pay assessments after a prescribed time period; and
(4) other provisions the commissioner may determine are
proper.
(d) In addition to any other remedies for the collection of
assessments and penalties, an assessment lien in favor of the
foundation attaches and is perfected 60 days after the date the
foundation mails notice of the assessment on cotton produced and
harvested that year from the acreage that is subject to the
assessment that is due and unpaid. An assessment lien is not an
agricultural lien for the purposes of Chapter 9, Business & Commerce
Code, and is not subject to the provisions of that chapter. An
Statute text rendered on: 8/6/2022

- 494 -

AGRICULTURE CODE

assessment lien is subject to and preempted by the Food Security Act
of 1985 (7 U.S.C. Section 1631 et seq.) and shall be treated under
that Act in the same manner as a security interest created by the
seller. A buyer of cotton takes free of the assessment lien if the
buyer:
(1) receives a compliance certificate issued by the
foundation when the buyer purchases the cotton that certifies that
the assessment has been paid to the foundation;
(2) pays for the cotton by a check on which the department
is named as a joint payee;
(3) does not receive notice of the assessment lien as
required by the Food Security Act of 1985 (7 U.S.C. Section 1631 et
seq.); or
(4) buys the cotton from a person other than the producer
of the cotton.
(e) The foundation may assign, with the approval of the
commissioner, assessments or liens in favor of the foundation as
collateral for a loan to the foundation only if the proceeds of the
loan are designated for use in the eradication zone from which the
assessments or liens originated.
(f) If the department has cause to believe that a violation of
this section or rules promulgated under this section has occurred,
the department may investigate and, during normal business hours,
audit and inspect the records of the person who is the subject of the
investigation.
Added by Acts 1993, 73rd Leg., ch. 8, Sec. 1, eff. June 1, 1993.
Amended by Acts 1995, 74th Leg., ch. 227, Sec. 11, eff. Sept. 1,
1995; Acts 1997, 75th Leg., ch. 463, Sec. 1.17, eff. May 30, 1997;
Acts 1999, 76th Leg., ch. 286, Sec. 4, eff. May 29, 1999; Acts 2001,
77th Leg., ch. 168, Sec. 2, eff. May 18, 2001.

