Sec. 80.010. BOARD DUTIES. (a) The board shall have an annual
independent audit of the books, records of account, and minutes of
proceedings maintained by the corporation prepared by an independent
certified public accountant or a firm of independent certified public
accountants. The audit must include information for each zone in
which a suppression program has been conducted under this chapter.
The audit shall be filed with the board, the commissioner, and the
state auditor and be made available to the public by the corporation
or the commissioner. The transactions of the corporation are subject
to audit by the state auditor in accordance with Chapter 321,
Government Code.
(b) Not later than the 45th day after the last day of the
fiscal year, the board shall submit to the commissioner a report
itemizing all income and expenditures and describing all activities
of the corporation during the fiscal year.
(c) The corporation shall provide fidelity bonds in amounts
determined by the board for employees or agents who handle money for
Statute text rendered on: 8/6/2022

- 597 -

AGRICULTURE CODE

the corporation.
(d) The corporation and the board are state agencies for the
following purposes only:
(1) exemption from taxation, including exemption from sales
and use taxes and taxes under Chapter 152, Tax Code; and
(2) exemption from vehicle registration fees.
(e) Funds collected by the corporation are not state funds and
are not required to be deposited in the state treasury. The
corporation shall deposit all money collected under this chapter in a
bank or other depository approved by the commissioner.
(f) The board shall collect data on the type and quantity of
pesticides used in accordance with this chapter. The data shall be
filed with the commissioner.
(g) All money collected under this chapter shall be used solely
to finance programs approved by the commissioner as consistent with
this chapter.
(h) The corporation is subject to the requirements of:
(1) the open meetings law, Chapter 551, Government Code;
and
(2) the public information law, Chapter 552, Government
Code.
(i) A board member may not vote on any matter in which the
member has a direct pecuniary interest. A board member is subject to
the same restrictions as a local public official under Chapter 171,
Local Government Code.
Added by Acts 2009, 81st Leg., R.S., Ch. 506 (S.B. 1016), Sec. 10.01,
eff. September 1, 2009.

