Sec. 201.151. USE OF COUNTY MACHINERY AND EQUIPMENT. (a) A
county may employ or permit to be employed in soil conservation and
the prevention of soil waste through erosion, any county machinery,
including road machinery or county road equipment. Before employing
the machinery or equipment or permitting it to be employed, the
commissioners court must determine that the machinery or equipment is
not demanded for building or maintaining the roads of the county and
must enter that determination in the minutes of the court. The
commissioners court shall provide for compensation to be paid for
employment of the machinery or equipment and for that compensation to
be paid into the county road fund or the road fund of a defined
conservation district or authorized subdivision in the county.
(b) In the public service of conserving the soil fertility of
the land of the county, the commissioners court may cooperate with
the landowners and taxpayers of the county in all judicious efforts
for the preservation of the productiveness of the soil from avoidable
waste and loss of productiveness of agricultural crops necessary to
the public welfare. In doing that, the county may permit the use of
available machinery and equipment for those purposes by written
contract, under which the county is to receive compensation from the
landowner or taxpayer.
(c) The compensation under a contract under Subsection (b) of
this section must be paid on a uniform basis considered equitable and
proper by the commissioners court. The compensation shall be paid
into the road and bridge fund of the county. The commissioners court
may provide for the payments from landowners or taxpayers to be paid
in equitable amounts and intervals when county taxes are collected.
(d) The commissioners court or a representative of the
commissioners court may not go on the land of any landowner to
improve, terrace, protect, or ditch the land until requested to do so
in writing by the owner of the land. The commissioners court may not
be required to do that work unless the court determines that the work
is of public benefit and elects to do the work.
(e) In any county with a population of not less than 22,000 or
more than 23,000, not less than 60,000 nor more than 80,000, or not
less than 290,000 nor more than 360,000, the commissioners court by
Statute text rendered on: 8/6/2022

- 1057 -

AGRICULTURE CODE

order entered in its minutes may rent or let directly to a landowner
in the county any machinery or equipment, including a tractor or a
grader, for use on land situated in the county in the construction of
terraces, dikes, and ditches for the purpose of soil conservation or
soil erosion prevention or for the purpose of constructing water
tanks and reservoirs. The landowner and the commissioners court
shall agree on the amount to be paid by the landowner to the county
for the use of the machinery or equipment and that amount shall be
specified in the order renting or letting the machinery or equipment.
Acts 1981, 67th Leg., p. 1480, ch. 388, Sec. 1, eff. Sept. 1, 1981.

